Media group Australian Provincial Newspapers Ltd said on Tuesday that it had identified a number of expansion opportunities in south-east Asia.
The company earlier reported a 12.3 percent rise in first half net profit to A$11.56 million.  
Chairman Liam Healey said the group continued to seek complementary acquisitions that would enhance shareholder value, with its mobile advertising division Buspak expanding.
"In this regard I am very pleased to announce that APN, through Buspak, has made two significant expansionary moves. In New Zealand, Buspak will establish operations later this year. In Hong Kong, Buspak has signed a long term contract with Citybus, thus launching Buspak in south-east Asia," Healey said.  
Healey said the move into transit and outdoor advertising through Buspak had been very successful with the division exceeding forecasts with its A$19.8 million contribution to sales and A$4.7 million contribution to earnings before interest and tax (EBIT).
Publishing sales revenue was reported to have increased by five percent to A$100.6 million although EBIT for regional newspapers was marginally lower than the previous year.
"Regional newspapers continued to be affected by depressed local and classified advertising volumes due to the weak overall economy," Healey said.  
The chairman said the company's radio interests through its stake in the Australian Radio Network (ARN) continued to produce excellent results, producing growth in EBIT of over 30 percent.
Healey said over the year APN's radio interests had increased with its one third stake in the acquisition of Radio New Zealand Commercial for NZ$89 million and ARN's acquisition of two Adelaide radio stations for A$29 million.
The Adelaide purchase of 5AD-FM and 5DN-AM was seen making early contributions to earnings.
"It is expected the acquisition will be earnings enhancing in the first year," Healey said.  
APN is about 49 percent owned by interests of Irish businessman Tony O'Reilly.
APN shares closed a cent higher at A$2.43 on turnover of 328,830 shares.
-- Sydney Newsroom 61-2 9373 1800