Malayan Banking Bhd (Maybank) on Tuesday posted full-year results that were in line with or slightly above market expectations, belying fears they would fall below estimates, analysts said on Tuesday.
Net profit at the nation's largest bank for the year ended June 30, 1996, rose to 1.07 billion ringgit ($428 million), or 94 cents a share, from 863.53 million ringgit, or 76 cents a share, a year earlier.
That was a shade above forecasts of around 1.04 billion ringgit, or 91 cents a share.
"I think (the result) was slightly above market expectations, but it was very much in line with my estimate of 1.094 billion," said Gan Kim Khoon, an analyst at James Capel. "I would say it should do some good for the share price."
Maybank's stock had dropped sharply on speculation results for the year would suffer from a decision to boost loan-loss provisions.
Its shares were suspended on Tuesday for the earnings report and last traded at 22.50 ringgit on Monday.
The company's latest earnings report did not contain details on its loan-loss provision, but more details may come out at a press briefing at the close of trading. Analysts will meet management on Thursday to review results.
Concerns about loan losses centred on troubled steel company Perwaja Steel and ailing Singapore property and trading company Amcol Holdings Ltd.
Analysts said on Tuesday it was difficult to tell if Maybank had boosted its loan-loss provision based on the earnings report, although several said it appeared no big increase had been made.
"Margins did improve quite substantially," said an analyst at Vickers Ballas, adding that operating costs were "quite well managed".
Several analysts said loan growth of 15 percent was slightly disappointing. In addition, "deposit growth was tiny," said Tony Shue of Jupiter Securities.
Deposits from customers grew 13 percent year on year. An analyst with a foreign research house said the pace reflected "a lot of competition for funds" within the Malaysian banking industry.
Analysts said the latest results may prompt some research firms to increase next year's profit forecasts. "I would expect many other houses to revise upwards their estimates for 1997 based on this," said Gan. ($1 = 2.5 ringgit)