Standard Chartered Bank, the oldest but least active foreign bank in Manila, has embarked on an expansion programme to ensure it is not left behind as competition in the Philippine banking sector intensifies.
"We moved the Philippines in terms of (the bank's global) priority from kind of the bottom up to almost the top," the bank's Philippine chief executive, Eirvin Knox, said in an interview on Tuesday.
While London-based Standard Chartered was reducing staff levels globally, its Manila unit aimed to double its current 220 employees in the next two years, Knox said.
It has increased its capital to 1.5 billion pesos, five times the government-mandated minimum. It is expanding treasury operations and installing a new dealing room, and plans to introduce new products including a credit card which should be available early next year.
"The next two or three years are critical to establish what you are going to be able to achieve long-term," Knox said.
The Philippines' economic revival in the past four years is largely responsible for the renewed sense of purpose in a bank which first set up here in 1872 and numbered national hero Jose Rizal, executed by Spanish colonists in 1896, among its early customers.
Knox is bullish about the Philippines over the next few years, arguing that while it cannot compete as a low- cost manufacturing centre with other regional countries, its strength as a source of semi-skilled or skilled workers is unparalleled.
But the pace of the current expansion, especially in the banking sector, could cause problems, Knox said.
"I think the system is getting to the point where it shouldn't be taking on a lot of new players. This is still a relatively small banking market when compared to other countries in the region," he said.
The Bankers Association of the Philippines has also expressed concern that the sector is becoming too crowded, especially since the government introduced a liberalised banking law last year opening the sector to much greater foreign participation.
Knox saw no signs of imminent bank failures, but said there was always a danger in an intensely competitive market that smaller banks may be tempted to take on risks they are not capable of managing.
"We've seen in other systems...where rapid deregulation has caused huge problems in the banking sector and in fact in some instances has had a pretty severe impact in the whole economy," Knox said, citing Australia, Britain and the United States as examples.
He suggested that one measure the government could take to prevent problems arising was a greater degree of scrutiny of people applying for new licences.
Knox said that apart from personal services such as mortgages and consumer investment banking, Standard Chartered wanted to become a leader in the peso-dollar foreign exchange market, which he saw expanding steadily rather than explosively.
It would also be active when derivative instruments and a domestic bond market began to develop, he said, predicting that both would come about within the next two years.
Knox said banks were also lobbying the government for reforms to an antiquated tax system which inhibited bond trading and to other legislation which forced banks to place up to 25 percent of their loan portfolios in the agribusiness sector.