Iran said it signed on Tuesday a $1.2 billion deal to build a joint oil refinery in Pakistan, appearing again to work around U.S. moves to choke Tehran's oil industry.
State-run Tehran radio said the refinery deal was signed in Islamabad by Iran's Oil Minister Gholamreza Aghazadeh and Pakistani Production Minister Mohammad Asghar.
The radio said the two Moslem neighbours would invest jointly in the construction of the 120,000 barrels per day (bpd) refinery in Pakistan's southwestern Balochistan Province.
"It has been estimated that the construction of this refinery will cost $1.2 billion, 75 percent of which will be met by international sources and the rest will be paid jointly by the two countries," the radio added without giving financing details.
Tuesday's deal follows a controversial $23 billion accord last week with Tehran's western neighbour Turkey to supply it with Iranian natural gas to the year 2020.
The accord with Washington's NATO ally angered the United States which is seeking to isolate Iran politically and force it to change what it sees as Tehran's anti-Western stand by cutting international financing for oil and gas projects.
Washington accuses Tehran of sponsoring terrorism and seeking to develop nuclear arms. Iran denies both charges.
President Bill Clinton on August 5 signed the Iran-Libya Sanctions Act which will penalise companies that invest $40 million or more a year in oil and gas projects in both states.
The radio said Iran's equity share in the Pakistan project would be met by providing technical services and equipment for the refinery which will process Iranian crude.
The two states also signed an agreement to conduct a feasibility study for a proposed project to supply Pakistan and India with Iranian natural gas by pipeline. The project is estimated to cost around $3.5 billion, the radio added.
U.S. Senator Alfonse D'Amato, an architect of the Iran-Libya sanctions, has warned foreign firms against involvement in the pipeline project and has urged Clinton to pressure Turkey and other states to abandon projects with the Islamic republic.
Several Western powers and other world states have strongly criticised the unilateral U.S. sanctions against Iran.
On Monday French oil group Total SA said that Malaysia's Petronas had taken a 30 percent stake in a huge project to develop two oil and gas Siri fields in Iran, the world's third largest oil exporter.
The announcement ended a search of more than a year for risk-sharing partners on the $600 million projects.
Tehran also said on Tuesday that it had started work on its South Pars Gulf field to produce one billion cubic feet of gas and 40,000 barrels of liquefied gas per day. Iran has the world's second largest natural gas reserves after Russia.
The Iranian news agency IRNA quoted Mostafa Khoei, director of the engineering and development department at the National Iranian Oil Company, as saying the company was studying proposals from foreign firms to carry out the project which is worth about $900 million.