A rapid succession of gas discoveries in Egyptian waters off the Nile Delta are making the area one of the most promising in the world for the oil industry, a senior oil company executive said on Tuesday.
"Only now are we understanding the magnitude of the opportunity," Amoco Egypt vice president Gary Bose told Reuters in an interview. "As a whole, the basin could be world class."
Amoco, one of the leading companies in the field, has made nine discoveries in the past two years. The company and its partners have identified five trillion cubic feet in the area and that could be just the tip of the iceberg.
The oil ministry said on Tuesday that another company, Petrobel/Belayim Petroleum, had found more gas in its Port Fouad concession, north of the region's first producing gas field.
Petrobel is a joint venture between the state's Egyptian General Petroleum Corporation (EGPC) and International Egyptian Oil Company, local subsidiary of the Italian company Agip.
Amoco and its partners have invested more than $250 million in exploration scheme in Egypt since 1992, the year it won its first Nile Delta concession, and the company plans to keep pouring money in as long as its lucky streak lasts.
"Conceivably billions of dollars could be committed if our success continues," said Bose. "Drilling has confirmed significant reserves and the potential for further finds."
"We are already committed to half a billion (dollars) to developing these fields, starting this year and up to about 2002/2003," he added.
Amoco is the largest concession holder in Egypt, with a stake in 8.4 million acres (340,000 square km). It is a partner in nine concessions in the Nile Delta area.
Amoco Egypt's exploration budget alone is $50 million this year and the same amount in 1997.
The company expects to start gas production by the end of the year from its Baltim South field, initially at a modest rate of 20 million cubic feet a day.
It will simultaneously work out development plans with its partners and the Egyptian government for the Baltim East, Temsah and then the Ras al-Barr fields, Bose said.
Amoco is still trying to define the size of the Temsah field. "It may be part of a much larger contiguous field and there's the possibility of large fields in deeper water in our and in other concessions," said Bose.
Initially the gas will go to the Egyptian market, where demand is rising fast as power stations convert to gas and the gas grid reaches new domestic and industrial consumers.
"The Egyptian market is significant but EGPC and other ministries are cooperating very effectively with the contractors to look at export markets," Bose said.
Much depends on progress in the Egyptian government's gas negotiations with Israel, the natural destination for gas exports. The plan is to build a gas pipeline across northern Sinai but Egypt and Israel have not yet agreed on the price.
"Given the potential we are also looking at liquefaction for export by tanker to Europe," said Bose.