Huntsman Corp. on Tuesday dropped its $460 million bid for Rexene Corp. after being spurned twice by the Dallas-based chemical firm.
Huntsman, which is the largest privately held chemical company in the country, also said it would not pursue a hostile tender offer for Rexene -- a move that had been anticipated by some Wall Street takeover traders.
"I'm washing my hands of the entire matter. Huntsman Corp. is not interested in pursuing further negotiations nor in commencing an unsolicited tender offer at this time. It is simply not worth the aggravation," said Jon Huntsman, chief executive officer and chairman of the family-owned company based in Salt Lake City.
Huntsman said the decision came after Rexene financial adviser Schroder-Wertheim indicated the Rexene board would reject bids substantially above its $15 per share offer.
Huntsman's first bid of $14 per share was rejected by Rexene on July 22. It then sweetened the offer to $15 per share on Aug. 1, but Rexene rejected that bid as well.
The unsolicited bid also included the assumption of $175 million of debt.
Rexene did not have any immediate comment on Huntsman's decision.
But Rexene's stock, which had risen sharply from about $9 per share after Huntsman first launched its bid, tumbled $2 to $10.50 in after-hours trading on news Huntsman was dropping the offer. Huntsman made its announcement after the market closed.
Huntsman blasted Rexene's rejection of its offer and warned that the cyclical chemical industry is already seeing a decline in margins and prices. In spurning the offer, Rexene said shareholder value would be boosted by its strategic investment plan, which includes additional capacity and the expansion of product offerings.
"In my opinion, Rexene's shareholders won't see our offering in the value of Rexene stock for years to come. The shareholders should be very disappointed," Huntsman said.
The move marks the second time in recent months that Huntsman, long known for successful acquisitions, failed to win a target company.
Huntsman launched a bid for Sterling Chemicals Inc. in April, but the effort failed when the target instead opted for a management and investor buyout.
In 1994, Huntsman doubled its size when it acquired Texaco Inc.'s chemical business for $850 million.