ValuJet Inc. said it began two-days of federal safety "proving runs" Tuesday, in hopes of getting a regulatory green light to resume scheduled flights this week.
The discount carrier, which suspended operations in June amid a series of alleged safety violations and after a deadly crash, also has recalled 70 pilots and 100 flight attendants to staff flights to five cities in the event that ValuJet receives final approval from the Federal Aviation Administration.
FAA inspectors Tuesday morning began putting a McDonnell Douglas DC-9 and two ValuJet crews through various flight exercises, including emergency procedures, said airline spokesman Gregg Kenyon. A ValuJet DC-9 crew consists of a pilot, a co-pilot and three flight attendants.
The proving runs were scheduled to continue through Wednesday afternoon. Kenyon declined to discuss the number of flights or cities involved.
In recent days, ValuJet put the same DC-9 aircraft through a series of test flights between Atlanta and Washington in preparation for the proving runs.
"They will run through a variety of flight situations with FAA personnel on board, including some emergency scenarios," Kenyon said.
ValuJet suspended operations after the May 11 crash of Flight 592, which killed 110 people in the Florida Everglades. Maintenance was not identified as a contributing factor. But the crash led the FAA to step up safety inspections, which in turn led to the suspension.
The low-cost carrier, once a dream for Wall Street investors but a nightmare for big carriers such as Delta Air Lines Inc., now must prove its ability to meet the terms of an FAA consent order, under which the proving runs were taking place.
ValuJet hopes to resume flights Friday but cannot do so without FAA approval.
"We're sitting at a red light, waiting for it to turn green," Kenyon said when asked to characterise the airline's situation.
ValuJet wants to resume operations with seven planes and flights to five cities.
In preparation for that day, pilots and flight attendants have already begun attending retraining programmes developed to meet the consent order.
Between 175 and 200 registration agents and 145 customer service representatives also have been notified that they could start work soon if the Transportation Department allows the airline to begin selling tickets and advertising flight service.
ValuJet stock was unchanged Tuesday afternoon, trading at $10.875 on Nasdaq.