Bankrupt online service Europe Online SA logged off for good on Tuesday after last-ditch talks with Deutsche Telekom AG and others to keep the Luxembourg-based operation running failed.
"Europe Online has ceased to operate. No agreement was reached by a deadline this morning, so we had to close it down," Albert Wildgen, one of Europe Online's liquidators, told Reuters. He declined to give further details.
Subscribers attempting to connect to the service, which embattled Europe Online had managed to keep going up to the end, found a message saying it could not be accessed.
With about 25,000 subscribers altogether, multilingual Europe Online had national services in Germany, Britain and Luxembourg, as well as an international service in English, which included news, weather, travel, sports and entertainment.
The company suffered a major financial blow in July when its biggest single shareholder, German publisher Burda Holding GmbH, said it was pulling the plug on further funding. Other shareholders included AT&T Corp.
Desperate attempts followed to find new investors or shareholders, including negotiations with rival U.S. online company CompuServe Inc. and Germany's telecommunications firm Deutsche Telekom.
No deal was reached, and the company was declared bankrupt Aug. 2.
A legal source close to the liquidation, who asked not to be identified, said Deutsche Telekom wants to go international and was looking at Europe Online as a way of achieving that, but decided late last week against salvaging it.
Similar talks continued with two other, unidentified parties, but these also failed, the source said.
"Europe Online broke down at an early stage of its development -- it had brilliant ideas, but not enough substance (for Deutsche Telekom)," he added. Deutsche Telekom's own successful T-Online service has over a million German customers.
Liquidators said all that was left now was to sell off the individual assets of the company. They said that at the time of its bankruptcy, Europe Online had debts of about $40 million, of which about $30 million was in the form of loans fromshareholders.
Besides AT&T and Burda, other shareholders included Britain's Pearson Plc, and Luxembourg's Banque et Caisse d'Epargne de l'Etat (BCEE) and Societe Nationale de Credit et d'Investissement (SNCI).
Despite its potential for growth in a burgeoning Internet market, Europe Online was plagued by shareholder disagreements over strategy since its formation in 1994 as a European-language alternative to U.S. services.
Burda, which had at times provided as much as 50 percent of the venture's operating funds, had been pressing the company to change its management structure to streamline decision-making before it finally decided to stop further funding to concentrate on its own German Internet business.
Before Europe Online could launch in December 1995, French Lagardere Groupe's Matra-Hachette Multimedia withdrew. Axel-Springer Verlag of Germany cancelled a planned investment and Pearson lowered its stake.
The operation only started charging for its services in March. Europe Online had expected to be profitable within four years.