Jungfraubahn Holding AG, which owns the transportation network surrounding the towering Jungfrau mountain in central Switzerland, said on Tuesday it would issue new registered shares at 220 Swiss francs each.
Jungfraubahn, which last month said it wanted to broaden its shareholder basis, will offer 150,000 registered shares with a face value of 20 francs for sale from August 21 to August 27.
Jungfraubahn is by far the largest operator of scenic, tourist railways in Switzerland. Its goal is to market the prime tourist attractions of the Jungfrau region, which includes the Eiger, Moench and Jungfrau mountains as well as the picturesque towns of Grindelwald, Wengen, Muerren and Interlaken.
Jungfraubahn's chairman Walter Reinhardt told a news conference the company had applied for a listing of the shares on the Swiss Exchange from August 29.
The share capital of Jungfraubahn amounts to 11.67 million francs, divided into 583,500 shares and the public offering is lead managed by Bank J. Vontobel & Co. AG.
So far the shares of Jungfraubahn have been traded by telephone on Berne's regional exchange.
After the placement, 47 percent of Jungfraubahn's shares will be held by the public, 21 percent by Berner Cantonalbank, 25 percent by Spar + Leihkasse in Berne and 7.0 percent by the Bernese Kraftwerke (BKW) FMB holding company.
The shares on public offer, worth 33 million francs, came from Berner Cantonalbank and Spar + Leikasse.
Reinhardt said the shares were particularly suitable for investors interested in preserving their capital and receiving dividend income and the company was interested in a stable base of shareholders.
Jungfraubahn has a target payout ratio of 30 percent of net income and is paying a seven franc dividend on 1995 results.
Jungfraubahn made a group net profit of 2.7 million francs in the first six months, down from 4.8 million the year before.
The company, however, earns most of its money in the second half of the year and chief financial officer Daniel Hertig said the company was on target this year.
For the full 1996 year, Jungfraubahn expects to report a group profit of 13 million francs, down from 15.9 million, on sales of 88 million, down from 95 million. About five million of the lower turnover is due to the sales of a travel agency.
-- Peter Nielsen, Zurich Editorial +41 1 631 7340