The near-term fortunes of Swedish car maker AB Volvo, due to post its half-year results on Wednesday, are gloomy as the group battles with falling market share and higher costs, analysts said on Tuesday.
"The European car side is very disappointing, and Volvo has not yet achieved the volumes for the new small cars (S40/V40) that it expected, so it's going to be looking pretty grim," industry analyst Robert Barber of James Capel told Reuters.
Analysts polled by Reuters forecast a fall in Volvo's pre-tax earnings to 3.37 billion crowns for the first half of 1996 compared with 3.80 billion crowns for the corresponding period last year.
In its first quarter report, Volvo said operating income would be hit by the launch of new car and truck models as well as continuing investment in product and market development.
However, analysts rejected the idea that Volvo's falling profits are mainly due to a generation shift in the car and truck operations.
"It's not all down to difficulties in the production of their new car...they're also losing some market share," Barber said.
Barber said Volvo's forecast that its European car sales will rise in the second half of 1996 is questionable in the light of a 20 percent slump in European new car registrations.
Total European car sales rose six percent over the first seven months of the year, but Volvo saw its seven-month registrations figure fall 14.6 percent to 114,894 cars.
The Swedish manufacturer's woes were compounded by a slump of no less than 35 percent in July sales, bringing its European market share to a modest 1.5 percent.
In the United States, Volvo's Truck division has been hardest hit. Intense competition and a fall in total volumes have cut Volvo sales by 31 percent in the first half of 1996 with only 9,300 trucks sold compared with 13,500 a year ago.
Some analysts see last week's replacement of Volvo Trucks' top management in the United States -- just a week before the half-year report -- as a sign of panic.
Sales have also fared badly in South America with a drop of 50 percent to 2,350 trucks, mainly due to a decline in the Brazilian market, which accounts for 70 percent of sales in the region.
Analysts were divided on whether Volvo Trucks' shrinking market share is wholly due to the launch of a new model range in the autumn.
Bjorn Germer of Sweden's Matteus stockbrokers said he did not believe the launch of a new model was the only reason for Volvo Truck's recent misfortunes.
"Everyone knows the North American market is poor right now for Volvo, we want to see (in the half-year report) how bad the sitution is there," Germer said.
BZW analyst Philip Ayton said the eyes of the market would be firmly on the trucks division when Volvo presents its half-year report on Wednesday.
"North America has been flat for cars, terrible for trucks and there's been a change of management. I don't know if that's an indication of something a lot worse in way of earnings but clearly the American truck business is in loss and has probably worsened," Ayton said.