Ten billion crowns and 16 years after the first production licence was awarded in the Norwegian sector of the Barents Sea, oil companies are again eyeing its Arctic waters as a potential source of crude and gas.
But while Norway has revised terms and conditions for exploration to attract renewed investment there, industry sources say the latest licensing round will be make or break for the region.
"The Barents Sea enigma is still not resolved," said an oil company official. "But we're looking at the last major (licensing) round. If it's a success and someone strikes oil, then we will have a new boom in the area. If not, then I think people will cut their losses and give up."
Since 1980 53 wells have been drilled in the southern area of the Barents, yielding nearly two billion barrels of oil equivalent (boe), or five percent of discovered resources on the Norwegian continental shelf, according to the state Oil Directorate.
More than 90 percent of the finds have been of natural gas, the largest being the Snoehvit field, which holds around 100 million cubic metres of oil equivalent. None have proved to be of commercial interest.
"It's very remote up there and expensive to develop and operate," said an industry analyst. "Given that and the threat to gas prices from liberalisation, you'd be a brave man to start developing in the Barents. There are a lot of other gas plays closer to hand."
Norway, which pumps about three million barrels per day, is the world's second largest oil exporter after Saudi Arabia thanks to fields in the North and Norwegian Seas.
Twelve companies have nominated for blocks they want to see offered under the licensing round, known as the Barents Project.
The energy ministry will invite bids for Barents acreage in the third quarter. Awards will be announced in April 1997.
Company officials said new, more flexible licence conditions for the Barents had helped attract interest.
"The results to date have been less than encouraging, no major economically-viable discoveries have been made," said Matt Toner, exploration manager for Amoco Norway . "But in any (oil company) portfolio it's important to have some frontier, high-risk area and therefore potential high rewards."
Norway's state oil company Statoil, along with working group partners Saga Petroleum , Norsk Hydro, Amoco, Elf and Mobil , has been studying data collected from previous exploration drilling.
"We have reassessed the results from previous drilling and we have decided to continue working towards applying for a concession," said Yngve Vassmyr, Statoil project manager.
"We have a better understanding of the geology and potential of the Barents, but I would emphasise that the risk is still high. A lot of money has already been spent in the area and we should keep that in mind."
Vassmyr said advances in technolgy would help improve commercial viability of any finds.
In the 1980s the economics of development required discoveries of between 315 and 630 million boe. Today new technology means prospects of around 200 million boe -- about the size of the Balder and Njord oilfields -- can be seriously considered, he said.
Others considering applying for concessions are Amerada Hess , Conoco , Enterprise Oil , Neste, Norsk Agip and Phillips .
Industry sources are quick to note the absence of the big oil players British Petroleum , Royal Dutch/Shell Group and Esso from the round.
"It's a question of different priorities for each company, but I think it's significant they are not taking part," said a source at one of the companies considering applying.
"Maybe they've done their homework. There are better opportunities elsewhere to put your money."