Bombardier Inc said on Tuesday that it expects to announce by the end of its third quarter 30 to 35 more firm orders for its Canadair Regional Jet.
"What we expect is that by the end of the next quarter we are going to fill our order backlog for next year. For that we require a good number of orders between now and the end of October. I would say between 30 and 35 would be very satisfying," Bombardier spokesman Michel Lord told Reuters.
Lord was confirming a forecast made by chief executive Laurent Beaudoin in a telephone conference call with analysts late Tuesday afternoon.  
In the conference call, Beaudoin said that he expected Bombardier to announce in the third quarter ended October 31 firm orders for the Regional Jet that would fill production up to January 31, 1998. The current order backlog for the Regional Jet is 40, and Bombardier is producing the 50-seat jet at a rate of five each month.
Lord said most of the new orders are likely to come from North American airlines.
"I would say that we are talking most about North America at this time, where the market is quite active and you have large regional airlines that can order a sizeable amount of aircraft in one order," Lord said.  
Lord said Bombardier is in active discussions with airlines on ordering the Regional Jet, but he declined to name them.
"We are having a lot of serious negotiations. If only half of them materialized, we could quite well fill up our 1997 year," Lord said.
Margaret Cornish-Kehoe, analyst at ScotiaMcLeod Inc, said Beaudoin's forecast was well received as it was the first time Bombardier made a specific forecast on boosting its firm order book for the Regional Jet.
"I am very happy. There is no question this is very positive," Cornish-Kehoe said.  
Some analysts had been worried in recent weeks that Bombardier had not updated its order backlog for the Regional Jet from the 40 announced several months ago. In heavy trading last week and on Monday and Tuesday, Bombardier's Class B shares recovered much of the ground lost earlier on those concerns.
Cornish-Kehoe said that during the conference call Beaudoin also said he was expecting Bombardier to announce in the next few months that it would be boosting the order book for the de Havilland Dash-8 to the extent that production volumes would be filled for the next fiscal year, ending January 31, 1998.
-- Reuters Montreal bureau (514) 985-2434