CompuServe Corp president and chief executive officer Bob Massey said Tuesday that despite a $0.32 a share first-quarter loss and a projected second-quarter loss, the outlook is positive for the on-line services firm.
"Moving into the second quarter we're seeing an increase in usage in the CompuServe Information Service," Massey said in a telephone interview.
He also said trends in usage per member and revenue per member are "clearly going in the right direction."  
Subscribers declined in the first quarter ended July 31 but Massey said that may be weather-related. "I think in general the trend is in a positive direction," he said.
CompuServe has addressed subscriber declines by upgrading its infrastructure to improve speed and performance and is releasing a new software product, CompuServe 3.0, that is easier to use and has an integrated Internet browser, he said.
Marketing programs will promote CompuServe 3.0 and WOW! for Teens, which will be released in September, he said.  
"We are expecting that we will have a loss in the second quarter in the neighborhood of $0.10-$0.15 and that ... the earnings will improve from that point forward," Massey said in a telephone interview.
Earlier Tuesday CompuServe reported on its first quarter, warned of the expected second-quarter loss and said it expects improvements in the second half.
"We think the company is extremely well positioned to take advantage of the opportunities in this nascent environment we're in, in both the consumer online Internet market as well as the Corporate Internet Services," Massey said.  
He said the corporate service, which he called the company's "crown jewel," gained 43 customers in the first quarter, bringing the total to more than 1,000.
New partnerships with IBM, Netscape Communications Corp, Microsoft Corp and Oracle Corp provide comprehensive intranet-hosting platforms, he said. In the second quarter, CompuServe will have two icons in the Microsoft Windows 95 online services folder, he said.  
At July 31, CompuServe said, it had 3.3 million direct worldwide subscribers and, with NiftyServe, its Japanese licensee, a total of 5.2 million. WOW!, a new service for novice users introduced four months ago, grew to 92,000 users, and the SPRYNET Internet access serviced grew to 163,000.
--Cleveland Newsdesk 216-579-0077