Privately held Huntsman Corp said it is dropping a $460 million unsolicited bid for Rexene Corp after its two offers were rejected.
Huntsman also said it would not pursue a hostile tender offer for Rexene, a move that some Wall Street takeover traders had anticipated.
"I'm washing my hands of the entire matter. Huntsman Corp is not interested in pursuing further negotiations nor in commencing an unsolicted tender offer at this time. It is simply not worth the aggravation," chief executive officer Jon Huntsman said in a news release.  
Huntsman said it made the decision after Rexene financial adviser Schroder-Wertheim indicated the Rexene board would reject bids substantially above its $15 per share offer.
Huntsman's first bid of $14 per share was rejected by Rexene on July 22. The Salt Lake City-based chemical company then sweetened the offer to $15 per share on August 1, but Rexene rejected that bid as well.
The unsolicited bid also included the assumption of $175 million of debt.
Rexene did not have any immediate comment on Huntsman's decision.  
But Huntsman warned that the cyclical chemical industry is already seeing a decline in margins and prices. In spurning the offer, Rexene said shareholder value would be boosted by its strategic investment plan, which includes additional capacity and the expansion of product offerings.
"In my opinion, Rexene's shareholders won't see our offering in the value of Rexene stock for years to come. The shareholders should be very disappointed," Huntsman said.
The move by Huntsman marks the second time in recent months that the nation's largest privately held chemical company, long known for successful acquisitions, failed to win a target company.
Family-owned Huntsman launched a bid for Sterling Chemicals Inc in April, but the effort failed when the target instead opted for a management and investor buyout.
Shares of Rexene, which were trading at 9 before Huntsman launched its bid, tumbled 2 to 10-1/2 in after-hours trading.
--Robin Sidel, 212/859-1723