A battle is brewing in Connecticut over who is going to foot the bill for all the electricity Northeast Utilities (NU) was forced to buy this summer to make up for the loss of its nuclear power plants.
At stake is $120 million, which the state's attorney general Richard Blumenthal vows must not be paid by consumers.
"We will not permit and strongly oppose the costs to be borne by any NU customers," said Blumenthal, adding the problems plaguing the utility's nuclear operations stemmed from "extraordinary mismanagement."  
After the last of the three Millstone units was shut, Connecticut's Department of Public Utilties (DPU) hired two consulting companies, Russ Brown and Associates and Barrington Wellesley, to review NU's nuclear operations.
"It's a prudency audit," said DPU spokesman Beryl Lyons, adding the studies would play a pivotal role to determine whether DPU permit NU to recover costs related to the outages of its Millstone and Connecticut Yankee nuclear complex.
If the audits show NU was not prudent in running the plants, DPU could deny any NU request to recoup some or all costs involved with the nuclear shutdowns.  
At the center of the controversy are NU's two Connecticut nuclear facilities: Millstone and Connecticut Yankee.
The plants, with a combined generating capacity of about 3,282 megawatts - or about half of the state's power demand - were shut in March and July, respectively, amid safety concerns raised by the federal Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC).
Both NRC and the Environmental Protection Agency have since launched criminal investigations into NU's operation of its nuclear plants and the company's compliance with environmental laws.  
When asked if NU would attempt to recover costs linked to the shutdowns, company spokeswoman Myra Humphreys replied "We don't know yet. It has not been determined."
She reiterated that the utility would not seek to recoup costs at Millstone stemming from its operating history or from its inclusion on the NRC's "watch list" of nuclear reactors that warrant commission approval before restart.
But NU might still seek compensation for purchased power.
Humphreys said NU last week asked the DPU to extend by 45 days the deadline for seeking a rate increase to cover the cost of its power purchases.  
"If (Millstone) unit 3 comes back on line, it would depend on NRC's attitude on one and two," she said. "(Units) one and two are being questioned more than three."
While there are still no firm restart dates for any of the Millstone units, the 582 MW Connecticut Yankee plant is seen returning to the power grid sometime in late autumn.
Meanwhile, NU estimates it has cost about $25-30 million a month to buy replacement power for the Millstone units from other electricity producers.
On July 24, NU's subsidiary Western Massachusetts Electric Co agreed with the Massachusetts Attorney General not to pass on nuclear cost increases to its customers.
"They (NU) don't seem to be getting help from any quarter," said Gruntal & Co analyst Penelope Adelmann, adding NU's financial standing became cloudy after it cut its annual dividend to $1.00  per common share from $1.76.last month
Adelmann said the health of NU would improve with restart of the Millstone nuclear units, but the degree of improvement would depend on which unit resumed operation first.
--New York Power Desk +1 212 859 1622