Chase Manhattan Corp said Tuesday Michael Urkowitz, an expert in banking information technology, has been named to head its credit card division to succeed the retiring Charles Walsh.
A spokesman said Walsh, who will be 58 when he steps down in February, decided it was an appropriate time to make his plans known. The spokesman described the change as an "extremely smooth transition."  
Analyst Daine Glossman of Salomon Brothers noted that Urkowitz has been involved in retail systems technolgy at Chase going back to six months before last year's announcement of the merger of the old Chase Manhattan into Chemical Banking Corp.
She said it was doubtful the change reflected any problems with credit card loss rates. Virtually all U.S.. banks involved in credit cards have been experiencing higher loss rates for the past several quarters.
Although Urkowitz is known as as a technology expert, people familiar with Chase said he has a solid record in building and managing businesses.  
At the "old" Chase, Urkowitz managed a unit called InfoServ where revenue grew to $200 million from $25 million in a span of about eight years. The unit's activities include cash management and securities processing.
In an interview, Urkowitz said the credit card business as it has developed over the years reflects "more and more fine-tuning and segmentation" instead of offering just one product to the customer.  
He said there are now many different offerings in the marketplace and it is the job of the bank "to put the right offering in front of each customer and thereby grow customers and grow usage."
"In order to do that, it has become an information management-driven business," he said.
Urkowitz, who has been overseeing the combination of the Chase and Chemical computer systems in consumer banking, said only one more critical task remains which will be addressed in October when all back office processing is merged into one system.  
While Chase is eyeing international expansion in credit cards, Urkowitz said "it is not our intention to attempt to be a credit card issuer everywhere in a very short period of time." He said Chase will target markets where its processing platform can be used and other capabilities are already in place. "We would expect to expand in a very carefully targeted, step-by-step type of way," he said.
Outstanding credit card loans during Walsh's tenure have grown from about $180 million in 1974 to $24 billion presently. The increase reflects not only growth in the business but also the 1991 merger of the Manufacturers Hanover Trust Corp into Chemical in 1991. Walsh began running the card unit at Manufacturers Hanover in 1974.
During the five-month transition, Walsh will continue to represent Chase Manhattan on the MarterCard international Board.
Urkowitz will continue to report to executive Donald Boudreau, to whom Walsh has also reported.