About one third of the $380 million investment in Latin America announced by Chrysler Corp on Tuesday will come from the automaker's suppliers, Chrysler Chairman Robert Eaton said.
Eaton told a news conference that several suppliers have committed to build new Latin American plants to support production of Dodge Dakota pickup trucks in Brazil and Jeep Cherokee sport/utility vehicles in Argentina.
Chief among those is Detroit Diesel Corp, which announced an investment of more than $10 million to build a new diesel engine plant in Brazil for the Chrysler vehicles.  
Others suppliers supporting the Chrysler expansion in Latin America include Dana Corp, Johnson Controls Inc, Lear Corp, United Technologies Corp, PPG Industries Inc and Goodyear Tire & Rubber Co, Chrysler executives said.
Chrysler earlier announced plans for a new truck assembly plant in Brazil worth $315 million, including supplier investments. The plant, which will initially employ about 400 people, will build Dodge Dakota compact pickup trucks largely from "complete knock-down" kits shipped from the United States, with local content gradually increasing.  
Construction will start by the end of the year and production will start in 1998. The plant will build 12,000 units in its first year and ultimately will have a capacity of 40,000 vehicles.
Chrysler also announced that it will expand production of the plant it is now building in Argentina to produce Jeep Cherokee sport/utility vehicles there, a project that represents an additional investment of $65 million.
The plant in the province of Cordoba, announced a year ago at a cost of $100 million, was scheduled to begin producing Jeep Grand Cherokee sport/utility vehicles in mid-1997.  
The plant will add Cherokee production in mid-1998 at an initial annual volume of 6,000 vehicles, growing to 10,000 in five years.
Eaton said the investments marks a major committment to the Mercosur trade bloc, which includes Brazil, Argentina, Uruguay and Paraguay.
"We think this is a major growth area," Eaton said. "It's politically and economically a stable region, we think with particularly rising consumer buying power."
He said annual vehicle sales in the four-country region will increase from about two million units currently to about 2.5 million by the end of the decade.
He said it is necessary for Chrysler to assemble vehicles locally to participate in the market and the trucks earmarked on Tuesday for production will meet the the Mercosur requirement for 60 percent local content within three years.
He said Chrysler's growth in the region will be cautious.
"We are targeting very specific market segments, we don't have any interest, or desire to offer a vehicle for every possible application."