ValuJet Inc said it began two days of federal-safety "proving runs" on Tuesday in hopes of getting regulatory approval to resume scheduled flights at the end of this week.
The discount carrier, which closed down in June amid a swarm of alleged safety violations, also has recalled 70 pilots and 100 flight attendants who would staff service to five cities in the event that it receives approval from the Federal Aviation Administration.  
Gregg Kenyon, a ValuJet spokesman, said FAA inspectors on Tuesday morning began putting a single DC-9 and two crews through various flight exercises, including emergency procedures. A ValuJet DC-9 crew consists of a pilot, a co-pilot and three flight attendants.
The proving runs are scheduled to continue through Wednesday afternoon. Kenyon declined to discuss the number of flights or cities involved.
In recent days ValuJet put the same DC-9 aircraft through a series of test flights between Atlanta and Washington in preparation for this week's proving runs.  
"They will run through a variety of flight situations with FAA personnel on board, including some emergency scenarios," Kenyon said.
ValuJet suspended operations after the May 11 crash of Flight 592, which killed 110 people in the Florida Everglades. Poor maintenance was not identified as contributing to the crash, but the accident led the FAA to step up safety inspections, which led to the suspension of flights.  
The carrier, once a dream for Wall Street investors but a nightmare for big carriers, must prove it can meet the terms of an FAA consent order under which the proving runs are taking place.
ValuJet hopes to resume flights on Friday but cannot do so without FAA approval.
"We're sitting at a red light, waiting for it to turn green," said Kenyon, when asked to characterize the airline's situation.
ValuJet would restart operations with seven planes and flights to five cities.  
In preparation for that day, pilots and flight attendants have already begun to undergo retraining programs developed to meet the FAA consent order.
Between 175 and 200 registration agents and 145 customer service representatives also have been notified that they could start work soon if the U.S. Transportation Department allows the airline to begin selling tickets and advertising flight service.
-- Atlanta Bureau (404) 870-7340