Diamond giant De Beers said on Tuesday the withdrawal of Australian producer Argyle from its Central Selling Organisation (CSO) had been a blow but the global diamond cartel would nevertheless survive.
"It was a great disappointment to us that they decided to go their own way. This is obviously something that is a blow to our argument about single channel marketing," De Beers deputy chairman Nicholas Oppenheimer said.
Argyle, contributing about six percent to the CSO's sales, produces a vast quantity of very low quality diamonds.
Speaking at a Foreign Correspondents Association lunch, Oppenheimer said that despite the Australian secession, the CSO would live on because it held the key to stability in a market based, not on material value, but on the perception of value.
"A cartel depends on co-operation of all members of the diamond family. The industry may be easily damaged if anything got out of kelter. We see the CSO as protecting all its members. Customers expect that what they purchase will hold its value."
"A gemstone is the ultimate luxury product. It has no material use. Men and women desire to have diamonds not for what they (diamonds) can do but for what they desire," he said.
Under De Beers' stewardship, producers are fully aware of the prices they are able to win for their products.
He urged the Canadians -- whose new mines are due to come on line within five years -- to keep a balanced market in mind.
"People in Canada or elsewhere need to bear that in mind when they think about how to market their diamonds."
De Beers sells about 75 percent of the world's diamond production through its CSO, which posted record diamond sales of $2.748 billion in the first six months of 1996.
The diamond market was hit by uncertainty at the start of the year when Russian producers dallied in renewing a marketing deal with the CSO when it expired last December.
Large numbers of renegade gemstones found themselves directly on the open market, undermining the balance.
When in February De Beers and Russia's Almazy Rossii Sakha signed a memorandum of understanding, confidence again returned to the market, only to be swayed by Argyle's desertion in June.
"February's memorandum of understanding had an immediate and dramatic effect on the diamond market. It will hopefully turn into a deal now that the elections are over," Oppenheimer said.
Argyle's withdrawal was an even greater disappointment because having signed with the Russians, De Beers had hoped to see confidence and stability returning to the market.
The Indian market had been certain the Australian contract would be renewed and was confident about carrying high levels of diamond stocks. When the deal fell through, the Indian market panicked about the value of their stockpiles.
"They were confident in carrying those stocks (because of the renewed deal). When it became apparent that this wasn't the case, they became concerned about the value of these stocks. It snowballed until we have this situation where we are concerned about the Indian market now," Oppenheimer said.
"It illustrates the immediate uncertainty and concern felt once somebody says that they aren't prepared to be part of the single channel marketing," he said.
Claiming that the word cartel had a sinster ring to it, and asking rather that the CSO be referred to as a producers' co-operative, Oppenheimer said De Beers recent half year results were proof that its current structure remained successful.
"There is a feeling that the cartel is a dinosaur in the world. Turning to our pretty satisfactory results recently, we were very pleased and so there is a bit of life in the old dinosaur yet," Oppenheimer said.
De Beers posted attributable earnings for the half-year ended June 30 of $482 million compared to $407 million.