A Russian banking group which already controls a majority stake in oil company  AO Sidanko is likely to emerge as the winner in a new investment tender for 34 percent of the company, analysts said.
The price for the 79.02 million state-owned shares is 110 billion roubles and, according to the Federal Property Fund's Reforma bulletin, the winner must also invest at least 325.1 billion roubles in Sidanko.
The winner must also hand over to Sidanko a 13 percent stake in Sidanko's main production unit AO Chernogorneft. More than one bid must be lodged to make the tender valid.
Sidanko said in February that MFK and Moskovskie Partnyory (ICFI Moscow Partners), part of the financial group around the commercial bank Uneximbank (Oneksimbank in Russian), had acquired some 15 percent of Chernogorneft.
A Uneximbank spokeswoman said on Tuesday that the two companies hold some 13 percent of Chernogorneft. It was too early to say whether the group would bid for the Sidanko stake.
However, analysts said it seemed likely the Uneximbank group, in some form, would win the tender.
"There is a strong presumption that Uneximbank would be the front runner here," said Stephen O'Sullivan, oil and gas analyst at MC Securities, adding this would be no bad thing.
MFK won a tender for 51 percent of Sidanko under the government's shares-for-loans scheme last December, in exchange for a $130 million loan to the government. It can sell after September 1 but market expectations are that it will not.
"Generally, Uneximbank has been a force for good at Sidanko," O'Sullivan added.
Sidanko already holds 37.7 percent of the voting shares of Chernogorneft and a further 13 percent would raise its holding to 50.7 percent. All Chernogorneft shares are voting stock.
"This is one of the conditions to make the company more manageable," a Sidanko spokesman said.
Salomon Brothers oil and gas analyst Igor Falaleyev said he thought "Uneximbank-related structures" would win the tender, to be held on September 12.
Uneximbank, Russia's fourth-biggest bank by assets, has extensive industrial holdings. It won a shares-for-loans tender for 38 percent of Norilsk Nickel.
Uneximbank president Vladimir Potanin was last week appointed First Deputy Prime Minister in charge of the economy.
"Uneximbank is trying to integrate the businesses of Sidanko, trying to create a vertically-integrated company similar to LUKoil, realising substantial cost-savings," Falaleyev said.
He said Sidanko's current ownership meant there was little point in anyone else bidding for the 34 percent. "It doesn't give you control. Uneximbank is still going to run the show."
A number of foreign investors together own some 13-15 percent of Chernogorneft, analysts said.
Falaleyev said the government would gain much-needed revenue from the sale, Sidanko would strengthen its hold over Chernogorneft. Uneximbank would increase control over Sidanko.
Sidanko also has 38 percent stakes, equivalent to 50.7 percent of the voting capital in its other key production units AO Varyoganneftegaz  VJGZ.RTS, AO Kondpetroleum  COND.RTS, AO Udmurtneft and AO Saratovneftegaz.
Sidanko, with joint ventures, produced 27 million tonnes of crude last year, eight percent of Russia's total.
The state is planning to sell 34 percent of five major oil companies this year. They are Sidanko, Sibneft, Vostochnaya, Onako and Norsi-oil.
--Moscow Newsroom, +7095 941 8520