Deep staffing cuts and slightly higher banking service revenues led Brazil's Bamerindus to return to the black with a 20.431 million real net profit in 1996's first half, a top bank official said.
The bank, which had reported a 10 million real loss in the first quarter, also ended the January-to-June period with a higher net worth, totalling 1.368 billion reais, up from 1.239 billion reais in the same period last year.  
Mauricio Schulman, president of Bamerindus' board of directors, said the bank reduced its staff by 3,000 employees to 25,142 people in the first half, contributing to drop in administrative expenses to 838 million reais in the period from 948 million reais in December 1995.
"We reduced our costs by 110 million reais in six months, without closing branches, cutting the number of transactions or clients," Schulman told reporters, adding that the bank's annual target is to cut costs by 150 million reais or 12 percent of its net worth.  
Efforts to increase banking service revenues were also part of the bank's strategy to improve its finances. Bamerindus said receipts from banking services rose to 255 million reais in the first half, up from 214 million reais in the same period of 1995.
With the release of positive first half results, Bamerindus, Brazil's fourth-largest private bank, expects to rebuild public confidence, undermined by persistent rumors in recent months of the bank's liquidity troubles and speculation that the bank would be sold.  
Schulman said what hurt the bank most were the market rumors. He said the bank lost 1.585 billion reais in total deposits from 1995's first half to this year's same period.
Time deposits fell to 1.785 billion reais in the first half from 4.440 billion reais in the same period a year ago, according to Bamerindus' balance sheet.
"We lost time deposits because of the rumors. We lost essentially institutional clients like pension funds and multinationals," he said.  
Schulman recognized the liquidity troubles, but he said he expects liquidity to improve once Bamerindus gets a central bank loan backed by its own assets or it sells holdings.
"We are showing our situation to the central bank," he said, noting that Bamerindus has been in talks with the central bank.
Schulman said the bank has about 2.0 billion reais in government debt paper that could be sold or used to back the loan.  
Bamerindus has already raised about 500 million reais by selling stakes in steel mills CSN and Usiminas and home appliance maker Refripar.
Schulman denied, however, that Bamerindus was considering transferring control of the bank or selling parts of it as ways of bailing out the institution.
"We do not imagine selling parts of the bank and we have not held any talk with other banks (to transfer control)," he said.
Schulman also said Bamerindus Group's recent reorganization of assets will strenghten the bank.
Under the restructuring plan, completed at the end of June but only announced in July, Bamerindus' profitable insurance firm was absorbed by the bank, while its past due loans, worth 680 million reais, were transferred to the group's holding company.
The restructuring had little impact on the bank's first half results, but he noted "the effects will be stronger in the second half."
-- Sao Paulo newsroom, 55-11-2324411