The Mexican Rice Council is firmly against the lifting of a four-year ban on Asian rice imports, the director of the private sector grouping said Tuesday.
"We radically oppose the lifting of the embargo," Antonio Lajud told Reuters in a telephone interview.
The council represents the country's 13,000 rice growers and the 23 major businesses that control 98 percent of all Mexican rice sales.
The Mexican government is allegedly planning soon to lift the ban on Asian rice that was implemented in 1992.  
"We have not even been invited to the negotiations (to lift the ban)," Lajud said.
Talks are allegedly on-going between the Agriculture Ministry and representatives from Asian governments, including Thailand, he said.
"We are not interested in buying inferior quality rice from Thailand, or Vietnam, or wherever...if the ban is lifted we just will not buy the rice," he said.
Lajud said the council intended to mobilise the industry if the ban were eased and protest such a move. "We are just not going to allow them to lift the ban," he said.  
There will be important protests by the industry," he added.
"The ban was implemented in the first place because of the serious infestations Asian imports caused in our own rice fields...we have managed to turn that around and have our sights set on self-sufficiency," he added.
Mexico slapped import ban on Asian rice back in 1992 on phytosanitary grounds, stopping imports from Thailand, Vietnam, China and Indonesia. The government claimed it found some Asian shipments were contaminated with bacteria and insects.  
Mexico bought about 40,000 of medium grade 10-15 percent Thai white rice a year before the 1992 ban. Vietnam also sold Mexico rice in the early 1990s, largely by heavily undercutting U.S. rice prices.
Mexico consumes around 400,000 tonnes of white rice, and currently produces about half that amount and imports the other 50 percent from the United States.
"This council was founded in 1994 to bring order to the market that followed the infected imports and we have done that...now they want to return to chaos again," Lajud said, adding that Agriculture Ministry officials were refusing to answer his phone calls.
Agriculture Ministry spokesmen were not immediately available for comment.
Lajud said he had heard that the ban could be lifted as soon as August 26. Such moves are published in the government's Official Gazette, and rarely given much media publicity beforehand.
--Chris Aspin, Mexico City newsroom (525) 7289530.