Comalco New Zealand Ltd, the country's largest single user of electricity, will contend that the proposed electricity market rules are biased towards generators when it presents its submission to the anti-trust Commerce Commission on Wednesday, a company official said.
"We are in favour of a competitive and efficient wholesale market, we just don't think that the market that's proposed is going to deliver the outcomes," said Glenn Anderson, power manager at Comalco.  
"For a start it's very biased towards the generators. The voting structure (for determining the rules) allows generators to vote on the purchaser side as well."
In its submission to the anti-monopolies watchdog, which is holding a three-day conference to consider authorisation of the market rules, Comalco says that over 90 percent of the purchasers who favoured the proposed rules were also registered generators.  
Comalco NZ is a unit of aluminium producer Comalco Ltd. The Commerce Commission hearing is on proposed rules for the competitive wholesale electricity market due to be launched on October 1.
Voting on the rules was split into separate generator and purchaser classes, with larger players receiving a proportionately greater number of votes, although a maximum cap was applied.
While 98.8 percent of the generators class voted in favour of the rules, only 56.5 percent of the purchaser class were in favour.  
Comalco says in its submission that 60 percent of the purchaser class in number were against the rules.
"Over 90 percent of the purchaser class who favoured the rules were also registered generators," Comalco says.
"It is misleading to say it is market participants who determine the rules of the market. In substance, it is only one class of participants who have shaped and approved the rules which have been presented for authorisation."  
Comalco also contends that the rules have the effect of increasing the likelihood of gaming -- generators acting unilaterally to push market prices above the competitive level. "There's the potential for gaming, and if you look at what's happened in the U.K, you can see clear examples of gaming," said Anderson. "I'm not saying that gaming's going to happen, but there is certainly the potential for it."
Anderson said Comalco was also concerned about the current structure of the market.  
"I'm opposed to the fact that on an ex post basis you may not know the price of the commodity you're taking until after the event -- that doesn't seem right to me.
"I think, to be fair, the generator has got a product to offer, and the demand side should be able to decide before the event whether or not they want to take it."
Comalco will present its submission to the Commerce Commission at 10.45 a.m. on Wednesday, the final day of the three-day conference.
-- Wellington Newsroom (64 4) 4734746