Natural Gas Corp said on Wednesday it expected its operational performance to improve over the 1996-97 year, but added that this would be influenced by increasingly competitive and therefore challenging trading conditions.  
The company earlier reported a net profit for the year to June 30 of NZ$28.0 million, up from $22.2 million in the corresponding period last year.
Chairman Len Bleasel said the directors were pleased with the company's earnings improvement, which reflected increased natural gas and by-product sales and further significant reductions in operating costs.
He said the year was characterised by increasing gas trading competition and a continued focus by the company on the differing requirements of the contestable and non-contestable areas of its business.  
Beasel said that generally, the company could look to the future with confidence.
In particular, initiatives taken to add substantially to the company gas sales would reach fruition in 1996/97 with the commissioning of both the Southdown power plant in Auckland and a cogeneration plant at Edgecumbe. These would add more than eight petajoules to Natural Gas Corp sales over the year. In the year to June 30, earnings after tax were NZ$25.0 million compared with $22.2 million last year, before a positive after-tax revenue adjustment of $3.0 million.  
The company said a significant post balance date event was the completion and distribution to the industry of a comprehensive Transmission Services Information Memorandum.
This updated protocols published by the company in 1994 and formalised the process for non-discriminatory open access to Natural Gas Corp's high pressure pipeline system under posted tariffs, terms and conditions.
As reported at the half year, the result included a non-recurring revenue gain of $4.5 million relating to previous period gas sales brought to income during the year under review. The after tax effect of this adjustment was a one-off earnings gain of $3.0 million.
Excluding this adjustment, earnings of $25.0 million were 12.6 percent higher, and revenues from product sales, pipeline transportation services and specialist contract services rose by 2.7 percent to $248.8 million.
Pre-adjustment earnings before interest and tax were 3.7 percent higher at $132.4 million.
Natural Gas said the improved sales and cost reductions, combined with a three percent reduction to $51.2 million in debt servicing costs, more than offset increased taxation and lower returns from equity investments.  
Operating cash flows increased by 6.9 percent to $107 million and a year-end cash balance of $8.0 million, compared with $25.2 million a year previously. Bleasel said this reflected the company's commitment to debt reduction.
Total gas sales were 1.9 percent higher at 42.8 petajoules.
Sales by the company's utilities, trading as NGC Gas Companies, rose by 3.5 percent to 18.3 petajoules, while sales by the company to other utilities returned to the 1994 level of 24.5 petajoules after a slight reduction to 24.3 petajoules in 1995.
--Wellington Newsroom (64 4) 4734746