With demand for nickel wavering and stocks building, producers have little choice but to attack costs, nickel producer QNI Ltd said on Tuesday.
Nickel prices are down about 25 percent in the last 12 months, reflecting a slow-down in consumption by the all-important stainless steel sector, Wyn Davies, managing director of QNI said in an interview.
To maintain margins, producers must therefore hit at costs, Davies said. Davies declined to forecast future nickel prices but said the metal was likely to stay on a roller-coaster.  
"The markets will continue to be volatile and that's something one learns to accept," Davies said.
Davies said he did not fully understand the reason why an abundance of potential new players wanted to get into nickel.
Earlier on Tuesday, QNI reported a 20 percent fall in net profit to A$85.89 million in the 1996/97 year ended June 30 versus the previous year.
The decline was linked in part to a weaker nickel price.
"For the first time since the 1970s, there is a very strong interest in getting into the nickel or cobalt business," Davies said.  
"At just over US$3.00 a pound, a considerable number of existing nickel producers are not making much money," he said.
"But it doesn't seem to have dented the interest of a lot of would-be players."
More than half-dozen new nickel projects are proposed in Australia and an international group is aiming to restart the long-idled Nonoc refining and mining complex in the Philippines.
In Canada, the giant Voisey's Bay discovery is gearing for start-up in a few years, potentially supplying up to 16 percent of the world market.  
A bright spot in the market for those already in the market has been soaring demand in parts of Asia, where regional growth of as much as 15 percent far-outruns historical overall growth rates of closer to three percent, Davies said.
However, some 35,000 tonnes of nickel sitting in London Metal Exchange warehouses and possibly a further 30,00 tonnes stockpiled off-LME warrant is weighing on the market, he said.
Also, "There's pretty much in the hands of consumers," he said.  "We're not carrying much stock."
Davies said it wouldn't take much too firm up the market, although currently "people are pretty much supplied."  
Smart producers of nickel were looking to knock down their operating costs, Davies said.
It's certainly something we're putting alot of effort into." Still, market conditions aren't as bad as they were in 1992 and 1993, when Russian-produced nickel was flooding into western markets, Davies said. Better transparency of the Russian industry now exists, he said. "I think we all know a lot better what's going on in Russia these days, Davies said.
While metal continues to leak out Russia, most comes out from new prodcution and not stockpiles, Davies said.
-- Sydney Newsroom 61-2 93-73-1800