Kookmin Bank made its mark with a 150 million Deutsche mark floating rate note issue launched overnight in London via Westdeutsche Landesbank.
Asian debt markets otherwise slumbered through another summer day on Tuesday.
Kookmin's three-year notes were issued at 100.08 to float at 30 basis points over the six-month London Interbank Offered Rate. Fees are 20 basis points.
Bankers said Korean paper, including Korean bank FRNs, have become increasingly popular in Europe as the country moves closer to attaining membership in the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD).
Another enticement to bank lenders in some European countries, including Germany, are tax treaties with Korea that make the issues that much more attractive.
News of the newest Asian issues came in the form of mandates for Union Bank of Hong Kong and South Korea's Hansol Bank.
Union Bank will launch a US$50 million floating rate certificate of deposit issue next week.
The deal, which is being arranged by Jardine Fleming and Bayerische Landesbank, has a final maturity of five years with put and call options in years three and four.
It will pay a margin of 45 basis points over LIBOR, but fees have not yet been set.
Hansol has mandated Credit Suisse and KDB Asia to arrange a US$40 million FRCD. The certificates will have a final maturity of three years with annual put options and no call options.
In other news, Deutsche Morgan Grenfell quelled rumours that Thailand's debut Euro FRN issue has been cancelled.
DMG, which won the mandate to arrange the five-year US$200 million issue in June, said the issue has been postponed due to the current political uncertainty in Thailand but has not been cancelled.
The notes were expected to be priced to float at some 5-10 basis points over LIBOR, which bankers said was a very thin margin for Thailand risk even before the recent flare-up in domestic political tensions.
The outlook for Prime Minister Banharn Silpa-archa's coalition government turned shaky last week after the third largest member, the Palang Dharma party, pulled out of the coalition.
Thailand's opposition parties today submitted a no-confidence motion against Banharn, accusing him of damaging the country through mismanagement and inefficiency.
Some bankers said Thailand is considering issuing a bond into the U.S. Yankee market, but others said that idea "has been shelved."
-- Andrea Ricci (852) 2843-6371 fax (852) 2845-0636