Indonesian tobacco tycoon Putera Sampoerna sharply raised on Tuesday his offer for Singapore's Transmarco Ltd as its share price surged, a move which dealers said was likely to make the bid successful.
Standard Chartered Merchant Bank Asia said on Tuesday that Miel Investment Corp, wholly owned by Sampoerna, had raised its takeover offer for Transmarco to Singapore $8.55 per share from S$6.50 bid at the weekend.
Transmarco, a trading and telecommunications firm, had suspended its share trading in mid-afternoon on Tuesday pending the announcement.
"It looks like Sampoerna is serious. I think he will be able to get more than 51 percent. Sukamto is likely to sell most of his stake to him as he might not be able to unload that much in the market," one head of institutional sales at a local brokerage told Reuters.
Indonesian-born Sukamto Sia garnered 55 percent of the company with a bid of S$6.50 per share in late 1994. He later stepped down as chairman and director and has since reduced his stake to 36.2 percent.
Sampoerna, who controls PT Hanjaya Mandala, Indonesia's largest clove cigarette maker, accumulated 8.8 million shares for a 32.1 percent stake in Transmarco by August 17. The move, made through his British Virgin Island-incorporated investment vehicle Miel Investment Corp, triggered a mandatory takeover offer.
Dealers said Sukamto was expected to bail out of Transmarco.
Sukamto is the second-largest shareholder of troubled Amcol Holdings, which is being rescued by Indonesian conglomerate Sinar Mas.
"I think Sukamto is looking to get out, now that his credibility is dented by what's happened at Amcol and banks could be squeezing him," said one dealer.
Dealers said Malaysian-owned investment company Stratford Holdings could also sell its stake to Sampoerna. Stratford has reduced its stake to 13.4 percent from 22.4 percent in recent weeks, selling 2.4 million shares for between S$4.11 and S$9.72.
Stratford bought the shares at S$13.50 each earlier in the year. Dealers said they believed some of Stratford's shares were bought by Sampoerna.
"On paper, the Malaysians could be making a loss but they could be compensated in other ways -- like future deals with Sampoerna," said a trader.
Minority shareholders, however, were more likely to sell their shares in the market as Transmarco's share price has surged above S$8.55. It hit a high of S$10 on Tuesday and was at S$9.80 when trading was suspended.
Before Sampoerna made his initial weekend offer, Transmarco shares had last traded in the open market at S$6.75.
"I think the price could keep rising and may even hit S$12 tomorrow (Wednesday)" said a dealer. Transmarco is expected to resume trading on Wednesday.
Dealers said they expected the share price to stay firmly above S$9.00, at least for the period of the offer.
But one dealer raised the concern of how long the share price could stay at such stratospheric levels.
"The key question is, who is doing the buying in the market? Funds will not be there until they know what Sampoerna intends to do with the company. At such high prices, it is not exactly cheap for punters," said the head of sales at the local brokerage.
Dealers said Sampoerna could be aiming to use Transmarco as a listing vehicle to spearhead his business in Asia.