Commonwealth Aluminum Corp is set to cut production costs and reap freight savings by rejigging production once its takeover of CasTech Aluminum Group Inc is completed, Commonwealth's president and chief executive Mark Kaminski said.
"What we are going to look at is how do we rebalance the throughput of the business," Kaminski told Reuters.
Kaminski expected the takeover to be completed within about a month.  
"It was a friendly, negotiated acquisition and is fully financed," he said, adding that Commonwealth's results are "going to be significantly better than they would have been without this merger."
Kaminski said there would be freight savings by moving production of some products to CasTech, located closer to some of its customers.
On Monday Commonwealth said it was acquiring all of CasTech Group for $20.50 per share in cash.  
Commonwealth is a rolling operation based in Kentucky, buying ingot to make into sheet for construction and other uses.
Industry consultant Robert Unger of Planned Technologies Associates said Commonwealth was hit by competition from CasTech in the distributor products sector.
"Commonwealth had a good deal of their business being eroded by people like Barmet and Nichols-Homeshield," Unger said. "From Commonwealth's viewpoint I view this as a defensive move. I think they can probably shift a portion of their production to the Barmet facility."  
Barmet is the aluminum producing subsidiary of CasTech and is a leader in the so-called mini-mill sector, directly casting scrap-sourced metal.
Kaminski denied the takeover was defensive.
James Southwood of consultants Commodity Metals Management said Commonwealth's "margins were under attack" and the takeover was a significant development for the U.S. aluminum industry and consumers.
"It's likely to firm up the aluminum prices at the low end of the product range," Southwood said. "If Barmet were picking on Commonwealth, now they have nobody to pick on."  
CasTech's largest plant, based in Uhrichsville, Ohio obtains all of its metal in molten form from IMCO Recycling Inc's nearby facility.
CasTech buys the scrap and supplies it to IMCO, who then toll processes it into molten metal.
"We understand that the agreement with IMCO is intact, and that Commonwealth will also have the option to purchase the IMCO facility," a CasTech spokeswoman said.  
CasTech has a ten-year supply deal with IMCO, automatically renewable for a further ten years. CasTech also has first refusal to buy IMCO's Uhrichsville plant if it goes on the block.
Commonwealth was rumored to be interested in buying Golden Aluminum, the mini-mill which ACX Technologies is aiming to sell after making large losses.
"We looked at it but we felt CasTech was a much better match for us," Kaminski said.  
Commonwealth has a rolling capacity of 600 million pounds a year (272,155 tonnes), with plans to reach 720 million pounds in 1998. CasTech has production capacity of 320 million pounds (145,149 tonnes), reaching 400 million pounds within a year. -- New York Commodities 212-859-1646