German construction group Philipp Holzmann AG, which last year posted a surprising loss due to writedowns on property holdings, on Tuesday presented a gloomy outlook for 1996 after a difficult first half.
The company said it hoped simply to break even in the full 1996 year, saying that it would have to dissolve some hidden reserves to offset a negative operating result.
"For 1996, the company is aiming to post a break-even result by raising additional income through dissolving hidden reserves," Holzmann said in a statement.
"These additional profits will offset a negative operating result, possible losses from early sales of its properties and writedowns on financial holdings as a result of the streamlining of its portfolio," the statement added.
Holzmann ran into huge financial problems in 1995, posting an unexpected loss of 443 million marks ($297.4 million) which forced it to omit its dividend payout. At the root of its problems were 458 million marks of writedowns on its property portfolio.
Its shares -- which closed today at 375 marks, down from a February high of 685 marks -- were pushed sharply lower by the news, and by the resignation on old age grounds of finance director Michael Westphal soon after the losses were revealed.
Today's forecasts for the full year represent a further worsening of its position.
Only eight weeks ago, Holzmann management board chairman Lothar Mayer told shareholders at the company's annual general meeting that the company would do all it could to report a positive operating result for 1996.
Holzmann said today that general weakness in the construction sector had not helped its position. Weak building activity weighed on the German economy at the turn of the year and improvement has been only slow.
"Business development in the first six months was severely affected by the difficult situation in the construction economy and the unusually harsh winter in mid-Europe," Holzmann said.
Reporting on the first half of this year, Holzmann said its construction output fell by 4.6 percent to 5.9 billion marks.
Orders in hand rose to 15.6 billion marks at mid-year from 13.5 billion at the end of 1995, while new business rose by 11 percent in the period, it said.
Its general building division and transport construction group had negative operating results due to the long winter and losses at some groups in which Holzmann holds stakes.
The service division, which was the main victim of the company's property problems, reported a negative result overall although its operations not connected with the problems were profitable, the statement said.
However, the energy and environmental technology division was able to match its good 1995 result.
Looking ahead to 1997, Holzmann remained pessimistic, predicting a further drop in construction volumes in Germany and Europe. It said it aimed to beat this by gaining strength in Asia and America.
"Output losses must be borne in the short term to enable us to reap better results," it said.
($1=1.4895 Mark)