Scandinavian Airlines System (SAS) on Tuesday reported first half 1996 pre-tax profits slightly up on the same period last year, but said the full-year result could be slightly weaker than the record profits of 1995.
SAS said first half pre-tax profits rose to 1.05 billion Swedish crowns from 1.04 billion during the same period last year. The result was slightly lower than market expectations.
The carrier, which is partially owned by the governments of Sweden, Norway and Denmark, said group operating revenue fell to 17.44 billion Swedish crowns from 17.74 billion.
A statement said an earlier forecast of somewhat weaker full-year income before the sale of fixed assets compared with 1995 remained unchanged.
"Last year was a record year," SAS chief executive officer Jan Stenberg told reporters. "We cannot all the time continue to beat new world records. Our profitability is very good compared to the rest of the European airline industry."
Full-year 1995 pre-tax profits were 2.63 billion Swedish crowns and it was especially the third quarter that lifted the results, Stenberg said.
Operating income in the second 1996 quarter fell by 241 million crowns to 830 million -- mainly because a stronger Swedish crown had a negative effect on revenues in foreign currency not fully compensated for by positive effects on expenses in foreign currencies.
"Part of the profit increase we would otherwise have seen we won't see because tickets sold in dollars and French franc are worth less in Swedish crowns," Stenberg said.
The Swedish crown has strengthened by six percent since the beginning of the year while the trend in the first half of 1995 was a weaking of eight percent.
The statement said the alliance with Germany's Lufthansa continued to meet expectations. Traffic included in the SAS/Lufthansa joint venture rose by 11 percent in the first half while production increased by six percent.
With the exception of domestic traffic in Sweden and Denmark, all route sectors showed an incease of seven to 10 percent compared with the first half of 1995.
But the statement said increased competition between the Scandinavian capitals of Stockholm, Oslo and Copenhagen and on some European routes made forecasting conditions for the second half difficult.
After enjoying a virtual monopoly in Scandinavian skies for 50 years, SAS is now being challenged on its home base. Several airlines have recently moved into the skies traditionally dominated by SAS, undercutting its passenger prices which remain some of the highest in the world.
"We'll beat them," Stenberg said. "We are not going to sit back and let the competitors take over parts of our market. We have a battery or rather artillery of means to combat competitors. We have our traffic system, we have our timetable, our service concept, our prices, we have got Eurobonus."
"We can arrange our prices so that they are competitive too. We have already announced price cuts on some flights to Brussels," he said.
Virgin Express, run by Britain's high-flying entrepreneur Richard Branson, has announced the start of daily cheap flights between Copenhagen and Brussels from September. Norwegian airline Braathens SAFE has been given approval to run up to nine daily flights between Oslo and Stockholm from this autumn -- a route once tightly controlled by SAS.