Dutch-Belgian biotechnology company Plant Genetic Systems said on Tuesday its takeover by Germany's AgrEvo GmbH would propel the two firms to the forefront of the fast-growing integrated crop production market.
"The combined strength of these two companies is second to none in this new area," Plant Genetic Systems International's chief executive office Walter De Logi told a news conference.
"(PGS) are the leaders in insect resistance and hybridization technology...and AgrEvo has the best herbicide resistance programme in place."
AgrEvo, the crop protection joint venture of German chemicals giants Hoechst (60 percent) and Schering (40 percent) said on Friday it would acquire more than 75 percent of PGS for $550 million on August 30.
It added that it planned to tender for the remaining shares in PGS on the same financial terms.
PGS is owned by a group of some 120 shareholders, for the most part institutional investors, with the majority stakeholders represented on its board and so party to the initial takeover transaction.
"The takeover will be financed in part by a cash injection from AgrEvo's parent companies with the rest being taken as a credit," Lutz Krafft, head of AgrEvo's biotechnology unit, said.
However the exact financing structure had yet to be finalised, he added.
Asked whether Hoechst and Schering would seek recourse to the capital market to finance their contribution to the deal, Krafft said "probably...but I cannot comment (on their behalf)".
Founded in 1982, PGS is specialised in genetically engineering plants for insect resistance and seed link hybridization, which boosts seed yields.
Its first-generation products, which include corn, oilseed rape and certain vegetables such as chicory, are close to being launched on the market.
AgrEvo has developed its own technology called Liberty Link for weed control. Its genetically modified oilseed rape is already being sold in Canada and it plans to launch genetically engineered corn next year.
De Logi said the two companies' activities were highly complementary, with little or no overlap, and they shared the same strategic vision.
"The integration process should be very smooth and very fast," he added.
While PGS was currently still loss-making it should break even within two years, De Logi said.
"The losses have been very reasonable for a bio-tech company," he said. "There has been a cash drain of some $6.5 million a year, but this has ramped up to $13 million in recent years as the products are coming close to market."
AgrEvo and PGS reckon the market for new biotechnologically engineered plant characteristics will mushroom to some $6 billion worldwide by 2005 from "virtually nothing" at present.
"Ten years from now we will be the single most important entity in this new way of agriculture," De Logi said.
-- Lien van der Leij, Amsterdam newsroom +31 20 504 5000