India would try to put 145 private sector proposals to build power plants in a "fast track" category for government approval, along the lines of seven units now in the pipeline, a senior official said on Tuesday.
"All the fast track projects would be cleared by September 30," Power Secretary P. Abraham, the most senior civil servant in the power department, told a meeting of U.S. and Indian representatives on the energy sector.
India, which wants major foreign investment to meet a huge power shortfall, had marked eight proposals it considered as practically viable for "fast track" approval with federal guarantees to lure billions of dollars in investment.
One of the companies later withdrew, saying it did not need a federal government guarantee to ensure payments for the power it produced.
"The power sector is the story of the '90s with respect to Indo-U.S relations," said Dirk Forrister, head of the U.S. delegation said.
Industry estimates say that India, which has an installed capacity of 87,000 megawatts per year, would have an additional demand for 142,000 megawatts by 2007.
State-owned companies and the non-conventional sector are expected to contribute a total of 55,000 megawatts, and an investment of $223 billion is estimated to be necessary to make up the shortfall.
Indian opened up its power the sector under an economic reform programme launched in 1991. U.S. firms Enron Corp and CMS Energy Corp have been front-runners among foreign power generation firms making use of India's open-door policies.
"The new government is very keen to streamline the programmes to speed up the process," Abraham said.
He added the government was also in the process of reforming unprofitable state-run electricity boards. Their financial health has raised doubts among foreign investors who would have to sell electricity to the boards.
"Electricity boards need to become better paymasters and steps are being taken to make electricity boards more viable to foreign investment," Abraham said.