British mobile telephone group Orange Plc on Tuesday reported a jump in first-half pre-tax losses to 125.2 million pounds ($193.6 million), almost half as much again as in the first half of 1995.
But Orange, whose shares have fallen well below the level at which they were floated in March, said the losses were as forecast and blamed the continued weakness in its stock on misplaced pessimism about the British mobile telephone market.
"A lot of people do not understand this transition process in our market place," group managing director Hans Snook told Reuters in an interview, referring to fears that growth in new business was falling as the market became more mature.
"Our net growth has increased dramatically," he added, saying it was succeeding in all key areas which drive the business.
Orange said its turnover more than doubled over the first half of the year to 256.5 million pounds from 100.0 million as it added a further 194,000 subscribers to take its total customer base to 573,000.
Snook said the figure had since increased to more than 600,000, giving it 10 percent of a market led by Vodafone Group and British Telecom's 60 percent-held Cellnet.
Shares in Orange gained four pence to 191 after the results, which compared with a loss of 88.8 million a year earlier.
But the stock is still well short of the 205 pence level of its flotation, which valued the group at some 2.5 billion pounds and propelled it into the FTSE-100 index of leading British shares.
Orange, whose major shareholder remains the Hong Kong-based Hutchison Whampoa Ltd group which, along with joint venture partner British Aerospace, brought it to market, is not expected to turn a profit or offer a dividend until 1998.
But Orange points to its "churn" -- the percentage of cancelled subscriptions over a year -- which has now fallen to 17.6 percent, against the 25-30 percent levels experienced by other mobile players, as proof of the quality of its business.
It was also proud that it had pushed its average revenue gained per subscriber up fractionally to 446 pounds per head at a time when most mobile networks around the world are seeing their revenues per customer eroded by price-competition.
"We are not trying to attract the impulse buyer or the emergency user, both of whom offer low revenues as subscribers," Snook told a news briefing later on.
Analysts said the results, and particularly the churn and revenue per subscriber statistics, would go somewhere towards reassuring investors that Orange could deliver on its flotation promises and put a floor under the shares.
"I think we've hit bottom. A run up to 200 pence is perfectly feasible," James Ross, an analyst at brokerage ABN Amro Hoare Govett, said.
But others said Orange, without an earnings or dividend history, was still vulnerable to the type of knock-on effect experienced earlier in the year when it was hit by weakness in U.S technology stocks.
"With new operators coming onto the U.S. (mobile) market, there could be a shake-out there, and U.S. investors tend to think that what holds for the U.S. market is true elsewhere," SGST analyst John Tysoe said.