Standard & Poor's said on Tuesday it affirmed its AAA ratings on General Re Corp's (GRN) senior debt and on the financial programmes of General Re Financial Products Corp and removed these ratings from CreditWatch.
The current AA plus claims-paying ability rating of National Reinsurance Corp will likely be upgraded to AAA and the A plus senior debt rating of National Re Corp (NRE) will likely be upgraded to AA (with a positive outlook) pending regulatory approval of NRE's acquisition by GRN, based on the implicit support of the General Re group, S&P said.  
S&P also said it affirmed its AAA claims-paying ability rating of General Reinsurance Corp. (General Re) and its A1 plus rating on GRN's commercial paper.  
S&P said in summary, these conclusions are reflective of the following major rating factors:
General Re is the largest professional reinsurer in the United States based on either its $5.0 billion of domestic statutory surplus or its $3.0 billion in net premiums written (which on a pro forma basis with National Re increase to approximately $5.4 billion and domestic $3.3 billion).
GRN's strategy is focused on being the premier global reinsurer in the eyes of its clients, employees and owners, and General Re has consistently provided innovative risk solutions and value-added underwriting and financial services to clients worldwide.
General Re's history of consistent and significant profitability in operations has surpassed reinsurance industry averages and has outpaced most AAA rated direct writers over the last several years. The company's reported five-year average combined ratio of 102.4 percent is impressive, but its "operating" combined ratio, excluding strong additions to environmental reserves, is significantly better.
Such underwriting results and substantial investment returns on $12.8 billion of invested assets have generated a nearly 20 percent return on revenue for the 1990's.
In addition to conservative operating leverage of 0.6 times (x), General Re's risk-based capital adequacy on a consolidated global level has been judged to be superior by Standard & Poor's. General Re has been quite conservative in reserving both its pre- and post-1985 business on a global basis.
GRN maintains financial leverage (pro forma for National Re) of 4.5 percent and interest coverage of 50x based on projected 1996 numbers.
Given the National Re transaction (and Cologne Re roughly 1.5 years prior), General Re seems to have most major pieces of its global strategy in place. S&P recognises that recent stock repurchases are an effective capital management tool, so long as General Re's operating companies maintain superior capital relative to underwritten risks.
S&P said the outlook for GRN was stable.
S&P expects that the near future will bring continued growth in profitability, despite short-term setbacks in top-line growth at General Re. For 1996, General Re will face relatively flat domestic premium growth, while international volume should expand by 8-10 percent because of the inclusion of a full year of Cologne Re premium volume. Longer-term, the group is expected to restore double-digit premium growth at near-break-even combined ratios, which are more likely to be underwriting profits as the growth rate of environmental reserves continues to contract, S&P said.
-- London Newsroom +44 171 542 6176