A British electricity consumer watchdog called for more competition in the generation market on Tuesday and said that the country's biggest generator, National Power, should be broken up.
The Chairmen's Group of independent consumer watchdog the Electricity Consumers' Committee also told a news conference that it would be "appalled" if competition in the electricity supply market were delayed beyond the April 1, 1998, deadline.
But it added that generation costs represented more than 50 percent of electricity prices and achieving competition in the market was "a primary goal" for driving consumer prices down.  
Ken Prior, acting group chairman, said he was very concerned that the Pool wholesale electricity market was heavily dominated by National Power and its smaller peer PowerGen. Publishing the group's second annual report, Prior said the generators had made cost savings of about 40 percent but consumers had felt none of the benefits.
"We want competition in generation...We believe National Power...should be broken up," Prior said, adding that the group wants to see the pool "properly representative" of market participants.
"It's all a bit cozy, it seems to us," Prior said.  
The group said it had made a number of recommendations to industry regulator Stephen Littlechild to boost competition, including calling for an independent testing inspectorate to test plant availability. The group also wants to remove payments to plant that is not being used.
Prior said there was no incentive currently to bring down prices, because electricity suppliers could pass on higher generation costs to customers.
Despite the generators' sale of a substantial amount of plant to conglomerate Hanson's Eastern Group electricity unit, there was not enough competition, he said.  
"The Pool governance needs changing to ensure that wider interests are represented," the group said, adding that a Monopolies and Mergers Commission inquiry may be necessary.
Meanwhile, the Chairmen's Group is focussing on 1998 and lobbying to help ensure that 25 million consumers will be able to shop around for electricity.
On Monday, the country's biggest electricity supplier Eastern Group confirmed that the consensus opinion among the 14 suppliers was for a phased-in competition in the supply market, possibly over 18 months.  
But although Eastern said computer systems would be in place to allow customers a free choice of supplier, the consumer watchdog accused some companies of dragging their feet over preparations for 1998.
The Chairmen's Group, which represents each of the 14 regions in England, Wales and Scotland that have privatised electricity suppliers, said it wanted to indentify the laggards.
"We want a flourishing electricity industry and a fair deal for consumers," Prior said, adding that competition would force suppliers to set up more efficient and sophisticated networks that would bring prices down.  
But he added: "In terms of preparation (for 1998), there seems to be a six month gap between the leaders and laggards."
The chairmen's group wants to finger the laggards with a questionnaire it has prepared. It will then meet Littlechild in September to discuss how to ensure competition stays on track.
Prior said he believed it would be new market entrants, such as supermarkets, that would lead the way in a free electricity supply market. "It is the new entrants we think that will drive it," he said.
-- Kirstin Ridley, London Newsroom +44 171 542 7972