Half-year figures from UK mobile telephone group Orange, showing reduced churn rate and solid revenues per subscriber, should be enough to halt the slide in its shares since March's flotation, analysts said on Tuesday.
And while some argue that rival Vodafone offers investors a much safer mobile play, bulls in Orange stock think its shares, currently trading 3-1/2 pence up at 190-1/2, could start to move back up towards their 205 pence offer price.
"I think we've hit the bottom. A run up to 200 pence is perfectly feasible," ABN-Amro analyst James Ross said.  
"People were starting to think it couldn't deliver on the things it floated on -- the low churn, the high average revenue per subscriber and so on," he said, adding that the latest figures suggested that Orange was performing to target.
Churn, the rate of loss of subscribers, fell to a low 17.6 percent over the period compared to the 25.6 percent last reported by Vodafone.
Average revenue per subscriber rose marginally to 446 stg a head from 444 stg last year.
Nikko Europe's Dennis Exton said he shared the view Orange shares could gradually move back over 200 pence each.  
"The growth in net subscribers, at around 30,000 a month, is not particularly pleasing but one positive point is that its subscriber acquisition costs are falling," he said.
Orange earlier said the average cost of acquiring a customer fell some nine percent over the period, although it warned that this trend might not continue into the second half.
While the first-half figures were seen supporting the share price in the near-term, some analysts pointed out that Orange, with little prospect of profits or dividends before 1998, was still vulnerable to the kind of selling seen earlier in the year as a knock-on effect to weak US technology share prices.  
"With new operators coming onto the U.S. (mobile) market, there could be a shake-out there, and US investors tend to think that what holds for the U.S. market is true elsewhere," SGST analyst John Tysoe said.
Tysoe said that if such a U.S. sell-off occured again, Vodafone, with its proven dividend and earnings record, could find itself more insulated than Orange, whose valuation depended more heavily on its future performance.
Vodafone shares traded flat at 244-1/2 pence on Tuesday.
-- Mark John, London newsroom +44 171 542 7717