Britain's Thistle Hotels, the group behind such luxury names as London's Grosvenor and Royal Horseguards hotels, on Tuesday began the countdown to a London flotation with plans for a share offer to kick off in September.
Market watchers say a float could value the group at between one and 1.5 billion pounds ($1.5 to $2.3 billion).
Thistle plans to raise 250 million pounds in new cash through the offer. Around 100 to 150 million pounds would be used to reduce debt, with the remaining 100 million invested in expanding room capacity, chief executive Robert Peel said.
"We would focus the money on London -- the region where we get the best returns," he told Reuters.
Thistle also announced half-year pretax pre-exceptional profits of 24.1 million pounds, a near doubling of its earnings in 1995.
But profits were hit after including a one-off charge of 87.8 million to partly account for a 10 percent cut in the valuation of its hotel portfolio to 1.7 billion stg.
Thistle is Britain's second biggest hotel chain, with 100 hotels, most of which are in the London area.
Its main shareholder, Brierley Investments of New Zealand, will cut its controlling 70 percent stake to less than 50 percent under the float plans, Peel said.
The other major investor, an investment arm of the Singapore government, will reduce its 30 percent stake by a similar ratio.
Small retail investors will be a key priority under sell-off plans and will be offered special benefits and discounts by the company.
"We see the retail market as two things. First, it's healthy for a company to have lots of small shareholders. Second, in a service industry we can treat them as our customer base and promote to them," he added.
Thistle said an indicative price range would be announced at the time of the share offer, which has no fixed date so far.
Some market analysts said Thistle could face some difficulty in a market which has seen a wave of flotations this year.
Conglomerate Lonrho Plc said last week that it planned to float its Princess and Metropole chains within two months with a price tag of around 700 million pounds.
Alex Kyriakidis, hotels analyst for consultants Arthur Anderson, has said that Thistle would have to price its float aggressively for a market which is already heavily exposed to an industry enjoying boom sales this year.
But Peel disagreed that demand from investors might have been dulled by earlier floats.
He also denied that a 204.6 million pound asset writedown of property values in its interim results would deter interest, despite representing a 10 percent cut in portfolio values.
The revaluation of the hotel portfolio resulted in the 87.8 million charge against profits and 116.8 million was also deducted from its revaluation reserve. ($1=.6471 Pound)