Britain's largest mortgage lender Halifax Building Society on Tuesday reported half year profits of 649 million pounds ($1 billion) and said its 10 billiion pound stock market flotation was on track for June 1997.
However, the society said its share of Britain's reviving housing market slipped as it took a 7.2 percent share of net mortage lending in the first half of the year and 15.2 percent of gross mortgage lending.
Halifax spokesman Gary Marsh told Reuters in an interview these levels were below its normal market share of around 20 percent because it had shied away from re-mortgaging which accounted for 30 percent of the total mortgage market.
The size of the re-mortgage market -- when borrowers do not move home but are lured by another lenders -- reflects the low level of transactions from home movers, said Marsh.
One analyst said the slip reflected the society's pursuit of profits as it prepared for a stock market flotation and a distinction from those societies which did not intend to leave the mutually-owned sector.
Building societies are owned by their savers and borrowers who will share in the proceeds of the flotations of those societies which intend to become banks next year.
However, societies which intend to remain owned by their members say they can undercut the mortgage rates offered by their soon-to-be-banking rivals as they do not have to satisify shareholders' demands for profits.
Marsh said Halifax members -- savers and borrowers -- would find out their share in the new bank with the publication of the new transfer document early next year.
They will vote on the flotation in February 1997 which means the flotation would probably take place in June, he added.
Most of the ten largest societies are seeking flotations to become banks because they say this gives them the ability to diversify from their traditional home-loan provider roots.
Halifax is already diversifing. It is in the process of merging with insurance group Clerical Medical and merged last year with rival building society Leeds Permanent.
This, along with the flotation, means further acquisitions are unlikely this year. "We look at non-organic as well as organic growth, but that's the story for 1997," said Marsh.
He said that so far this year net mortgage lending is eight billion pounds and forecasts a figure of 16 billion pounds by year-end. But that is dwarfed by the 40 billion pounds of net lending in the boom year of 1988, said Marsh.
"Transactions are still at very low levels...but coming back quite nicely," said Marsh, adding the housing market was showing signs of making a sustainable recovery which would avoid the previous boom/bust cycle.
The pick-up in the housing market has been fuelled by a low inflation, low interest environment, Halifax said, pointing to the lowest mortgage rates in Britain for 30 years.
But a further cut in the Bank of England's official 5.75 percent base rate might not feed through to mortgages.
"If they (base rates) were to come down another quarter point you wouldn't necessarily expect further cuts in mortgage rates," said Marsh.
Halifax's benchmark standard variable mortgage rate is 6.99 percent, higher then the the largest remaining building society Nationwide which has a 6.49 percent rate.
Halifax said its 649 million pounds of half year profits represents a rise of six percent rise over the six month period to January 31. It is changing its year end from January 31 to December 31. ($1=.6466 Pound)