London insurance companies that survived the shakeout of the late 1980s and early 1990s are now more solidly capitalised and professionally managed, Standard & Poor's said in a report on Tuesday.
With larger players taking greater shares of risk, and a shift away from traditional ways of doing business, London is still the pre-eminent market for specialised risk, S&P said.
"But its long term future may be as a centre of excellence rather than a centre of capital," S&P said. It added cooperation between Lloyd's and London insurers needed to be extended to ensure London's competitiveness as an insurance market.  
"Client demand for high levels of security and the arrival in London of large underwriting units with high levels of capacity have been coupled with a shrinkage of traditional subscription business in recent years," the report said.
After poor underwriting results and loss reserve deterioration, many companies have been driven out of the market, the agency said.
But S&P insurance director Rowena Potter said in the report that London will continue to be pre-eminent for marine, aviation and a number of niches, where the expertise or size of the exposure demands a London placement.  
Most insurers in London are now part of multinationals based elsewhere and this has brought a more professional and disciplined approach to underwriting, the report said.
"This trend towards more professional players and better market discipline is mirrored by events at Lloyd's," Potter said. "The number of syndicates operating has contracted dramatically, and corporate capital has become intertwined with that of the company market."
The major London market companies also are now substantially more heavily capitalised, to provide greater capacity and attract better quality business, S&P said.  
"In the mid-1980s new companies were entering the London market with as little as five million stg in capital. Mergers and use of capital markets mean that the level is now much higher, and the agency believes that new participants would now require at least 50 million stg in initial capital."
S&P said an upward trend of its ratings of London market companies over the last two years was partly due to guarantees and support from strong parents.
"But increased professionalism means that most companies are stronger now in their own right," the agency said.
--International Bonds Unit +44 171 542 6784