Power-hungry Turkey, facing energy shortages later this year, has pinned hopes on natural gas from Iran and development of its first nuclear power station on the southern coast for its long-term needs.
Recai Kutan, energy minister of the Islamist coalition government that struck a multi-billion dollar gas supply deal with Iran last week, said power generation from nuclear energy was inevitable despite environmentalist concerns.
"Nuclear power is a must for Turkey," he told a meeting of businessmen in the western city of Izmit.
"We cannot build big hydroenergy power plants every year. We must make use of our nuclear energy potential," he said in remarks carried by Anatolian news agency.
Prime Minister Necmettin Erbakan signed the $23-billion landmark deal with Iran to get gas via a pipeline to be built from the Iranian city of Tabriz to Ankara, beginning in 1999. Turkey is to buy a total of 190 billion cubic metres by 2022.
The deal sparked controvery as it came shortly after the United States, Turkey's NATO ally, issued a law to punish companies investing more than $40 million in energy projects in Iran and Libya.
The U.S. later said it had yet to see details of the agreement to see whether Turkey was liable under the new legislation -- designed, says Washington, to punish states that back terrorism.
Ankara said a last minute change was made in the agreement not to breach the U.S. ban by deleting reference to Turkey's involvement in the building of the pipeline's section through Iranian territory.
Turkey, which uses gas chiefly for domestic use, consumes nearly nine billion cubic metres of gas annually with imports mainly from Russia. The Iranian deal will supply an initial three billion cubic metres from 1999.
Turkey is expected to produce 93.1 billion kiloWatt-hours (kWh) of power this year, up eight percent from last year, against a projected consumption of 97.5 billion kWh.
Officials said the short-term supply shortfall would be met by imports from neighbouring countries.
Ugur Dogan, energy ministry under secretary, said Turkey would soon begin electricity purchases from Iran through an existing grid with its eastern neighbour.
"We will soon buy an initial 25 megaWatts (MW) of power from Iran through existing lines. Later in the year we will raise it to 100 MW," he told Reuters. The line's capacity will be raised to 720 MW, he said.
He said Turkey was also negotiating with Georgia and Bulgaria for power imports from end-1996 or early 1997.
Kutan said Turkey was seeking to revive a 30-year-old plan to build a nuclear power plant at Akkuyu on the Mediterranean coast. Previous governments shelved the plan after protests from residents, local politicians and environmental activists.
Officials said the government would later invite an international tender to build the plant, originally designed to have a power capacity of 1,000 MW to 1,400-MW and produce up to 10 billion kWh annually -- nearly 10 percent of Turkey's needs. Its total cost is estimated at $3 to $5 billion.
Turkey had been self-sufficient in electricity for years but lack of investments blamed on a stagnant build-operate-transfer (BOT) model, led to shortages.
The obstacles were aggravated by a constitutional court ruling in early 1990s that all government deals to be carried out by consortia involving foreign companies would have to be inspected by the Council of State.
The decision has delayed at least seven power projects which would produce about 1,000 MW and were worth around $2.6 billion, according to official figures.
The government later devised an alternate model to promote production via coal-fired plants, which supplied 36 percent of national output of 86.3 billion kWh in 1995.
Earlier this year the previous government allowed private industrial companies to produce their own power and sell any surplus to the state distributor TEDAS.
Such production accounted for 10 percent of the total national power output in 1995.
Undersecretary Dogan said the government planned to re-open four coal-fired power plants in western Turkey shut down in 1994 after environmentalists won court cases.
"We are having desulphurisation units built at chimneys to minimise air pollution at those four plants. We will open them as soon as possible," he said.