Japanese trust banks' asset quality and a secular erosion of their wholesale banking franchise remain the greatest concern in the assessment of the credit quality of the trust banking sector, according to Moody's Investors Service.
Moody's on Tuesday outlined the strengths and weaknesses of the Japanese trust bank sector in a newly published report.
Moody's currently rates the long and short-term deposits of Japan's seven largest trust banks and Daiwa Bank, the only city bank allowed to engage in commercial and trust banking.  
With the exception of Nippon Trust, all seven banks are rated at the lower end of the investment grade category. These range from Baa1/P-2 for Mitsubishi Trust, Sumitomo Trust, and Daiwa Bank to Baa3/P-3 for Chuo Trust. Nippon Trust is rated Aa3/P-1, reflecting explicit support from its parent, Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi.  
The banks' financial strength ratings are all at the low end of the scale. Similar to the case of Nippon Trust, which was acquired in November 1994 by Mitsubishi Bank (the current Bank of Tokyo- Mitsubishi), "we expect those banks with very weak financial fundamentals (i.e., those rated E+ or E) will ultimately require assistance either from the authorities or their respective keiretsu (corporate group) members," Moody's said. The rating agency adds, however, that it "remains confident in the Japanese authorities' commitment to protect depositors of the 20 major Japanese banks, including the seven rated trust banks."  
Despite having incurred significant credit expenses in fiscal 1995 in addressing their Jusen exposure and other problem assets, "nonperforming loans continue to remain on the trust banks' balance sheets, and trust sales of real estate collateral continue to be difficult and time consuming," Moody's noted.
The banks are experiencing substantial pressure on their capital, and the true magnitude of the problem is not yet reflected in officially disclosed nonperforming loan statistics.  
Moody's said the banks are also challenged by a secular erosion of their operating franchise amid further disintermediation, growing competitive pressures from city banks and securities companies as they enter the trust banking market, and the potential for consolidation of Japan's banking industry.
Despite their diversified sources of earnings, Japanese trust banks' core earnings remain dependent on the wholesale lending market, Moody's said. During the near term, the favorable impact of declining interest rates on the overall spread on the domestic book will disappear, it added.  
"A significant rise in core earnings expected by the banks in fiscal 1996 is only an accounting adjustment," Moody's said.
In the current environment characterized by a depressed real estate market, Moody's said opportunities for lending growth are limited. The report also notes that trust assets under discretionary management, especially pension trusts, will continue to grow, but they will not be a significant contributor to earnings.
Fees and commissions from custodial services and real estate sales and brokerage remain vulnerable to weak market conditions, Moody's said.
The trust banks' "weak financial fundamentals will likely continue through this century," Moody's said.