The Detroit Lions professional football team plans to leave the Pontiac Silverdome and move back to downtown Detroit into a new, 65,000-seat domed football stadium to be built adjacent to a new baseball stadium for the Detroit Tigers, officials said Tuesday.
Detroit Mayor Dennis Archer said the stadium will be financed partially through a new tax on hotel rooms and car rentals. Financial details of the project are expected to be disclosed at a 1300 EDT news conference, but The Detroit News reported Tuesday that the total cost of the new Lions stadium will be about $225 million.  
The project includes a $20 million Lions practice and office facility to be built in south suburban Allen Park, Mich., on land owned by the Ford Motor Co. The Lions are owned by the family of Ford board members William Clay Ford and William Clay Ford Jr.
The Lions will contribute a total of $70 million toward the project, with at least $30 million coming from Detroit's Downtown Development Authority and $50 million coming from the Wayne County tax on hotels and rental cars, the News reported.
Another $50 million is expected to be contributed by other corporations in the Detroit area, the News said.  
The move would be similar to efforts by Cleveland-area businesses in recent years to raise funds for downtown stadiums in that city.
Lions officials said construction on the new stadium will not likely begin until 1999. Lions President William Clay Ford Jr. said the team will not break its lease on the 21-year-old Pontiac Silverdome in suburban Pontiac, Mich., which expires in 2004.
The Lions tried unsuccessfully to negotiate new lease terms on the Silverdome that would provide the team with increased revenues from concessions, parking and luxury boxes.  
"We tried very hard to work out a deal in Pontiac, but unfortunately we couldn't reach a deal that would make us competitive," Ford said in making the announcement. "And although we couldn't strike a deal we will honor our commitment to Pontiac. We will not seek to break our lease."
Unlike other recent National Football League franchise movements, the Lions do not stand to gain a huge windfall from the stadium deal, Ford said, calling it "a large financial risk."
The Lions will not sell "personal seat licenses" -- up-front fees that fans must pay for the right to buy a season ticket -- to help finance the new project, he said.
"Our goal is to keep as many tickets within the reach of the average family," Ford said.
The Lions stadium will be built adjacent to a new open-air, $240 million Detroit Tigers baseball stadium that recently cleared its last legal hurdle with the Michigan Supreme Court's rejection of a court challenge to the use of $55 million in state funds for the project.
The two facilities are expected to share parking and some concessions and merchandise facilities.