Austria's biggest industrial group OMV AG reported steady first half earnings on Tuesday and said weakness in two key sectors would not prevent it from matching last year's record profit.
The oil and chemicals firm posted a four percent rise in pre-tax profit to 1.56 billion schillings ($148.9 million) while earnings before interest and tax (EBIT) declined six percent to 1.51 billion schillings. Net profit was rock steady at 1.24 billion.
Finance director Wolfgang Ruttenstorfer forecast full-year earnings would equal 1995's record 2.09 billion schillings pre-tax profit and 2.09 billion EBIT, despite wafer-thin refining margins and low plastics prices.
"If there is no downturn (in the fourth quarter) there will be room to improve our full-year result," Ruttenstorfer said.
His upbeat forecast failed to impress investors, however, and OMV shares in Vienna ended 13.9 schillings down at 1,025.
"I am suprised to see the share price down...The numbers were bang in line with our expectations," said Nick Clayton, an analyst at Kleinwort Benson in London.
James Capel analyst Jim Joseph said he had been looking for a second quarter EBIT of around 800 million schillings, however -- significantly above the 570 million OMV achieved.
"The big swing was in refining," he noted.
Refining earnings plunged 76 percent in the first six months to 0.10 billion schillings. OMV had reported a refining EBIT of 0.26 billion schillings in the first quarter.
"Current refining margins are not only unsatisfactory, they are untenable in the long term," board member Tassilo Peyrer-Heimstaett said.
OMV's plastics operations also struggled to maintain a profit as polyolefin prices hit the skids. Finance director Ruttenstorfer estimated that polyolefin revenues were down by about one billion schillings in the first half of 1996.
"We have taken a range of measures to compensate - cutting costs and increasing sales volume by 23 percent," he said.
Personnel director Walter Hatak said OMV would continue to reduce its cost base over the next few years and aimed to cut its workforce by four percent annually. OMV employed 8,663 staff on June 30, down from 10,028 at the same time last year.
Gas remained by far the biggest contributor to group earnings in the first half. EBIT was stable at 0.91 billion schillings despite a three percent decline in sales.
Chemicals earnings jumped 17 percent to 0.34 billion schillings, helped by stable prices and lower fertiliser costs. Sales dropped 38 percent to 2.63 billion schillings following the sale of 70 percent of OMV's Chemie Linz unit.
Exploration and production achieved a turnaround, posting a 0.11 billion schillings profit after last year's 0.12 billion schillings loss. OMV traced the upswing to higher crude oil prices and restructuring.
Marketing also returned to profit with an EBIT of 0.02 billion schillings after a loss of 0.06 billion in 1995. OMV said it planned to reduce the number of gasoline stations it operates in Austria over the next three years while expanding its network in neighbouring countries.
($1=10.48 Schilling)