Norwegian metals producer Elkem ASA on Tuesday booked a 33 percent rise in pre-tax profits in the first half 1996 but said it expected a decline in most of its markets in the latter half of the year.
Elkem recorded profits of 598 million before tax in the six months to June 30 compared with 449 million crowns a year ago. Operating profits rose 154 million crowns to 652 million crowns.
"Ferrosilicon and silicon metal activities, as well as Elkem's units in North America, experienced a positive development in the first half year," the company said in a statement.  
But manganese and chrome activities showed a somewhat weaker trend, partly due to a steep decline in ferrochrome prices.
The group wrote-down ferrochrome stocks of 27 million crowns at the end of the second quarter due to a further drop in the ferrochrome market for third-quarter delivery.
The results came in slightly above market expectations and sent the share price to a high at 89.50 crowns before it dropped back to close 3.50 crowns up at 87.50 crowns.
Elkem said a shortfall captive power production and higher than average spot electricity prices had added 20 million crowns to the group's power costs during the first six months.  
The ferrosilicon division more than doubled operating profit in the six-month period to 189 million crowns against 77 million crowns a year ago.
Elkem said ferrosilicon demand generally remained good and prices were expected to stabilise in the short term.
"Market development will depend, among other things, on the power situation in important producer companies such as Brazil and China, in addition to Norway," the company said.
First-half operating profit for manganese and chrome rose 85 percent to 193 million crowns despite a decline in manganese alloys' and ferrochrome prices in the second quarter.
Elkem said ferrochrome prices sunk 20 percent from the first quarter 1996 to the second quarter, leaving them around 30 percent below levels in the fourth quarter 1995.
The company forecast prices for third-quarter delivery to be about 20 percent lower than second-quarter prices and roughly 45 percent less than their peak level in 1995.
Due to the market outlook, Elkem said it would temporarily shut production at one furnace at the Elkem Rana plant from September 1.  
Market conditions for aluminium were also expected to remain weak in the coming months.
The group's aluminium division saw operating profits in the first half slip to 80 million crowns compared with 185 million crowns in the 1995 period.
"The markets are generally expected to decline somewhat in the latter half of the year...It is expected that the third quarter will be affected by seasonally low shipments for most of the company's main products," Elkem's statement said.
--Oslo newsroom, +47 22 42 50 41