Dutch analysts are agreed dredger Boskalis will post a fall in first-half net profits on Friday, but vary widely in their estimates of how big the earnings slide will be.
Profit estimates range from 18.3 million guilders to 37.3 million, with the consensus at 30.1 million guilders. Last year the world's biggest dredging company posted first-half profits of 41.4 million guilders.
"First-half results will clearly come in lower than last year, but the question is how much lower," ING Barings' Paul Verbraeken said.
"Boskalis described capacity utilisation in the first half as 'moderate' and it depends how you interpret that," he added.
Verbraeken is forecasting first-half net of 36 million guilders or 1.39 guilders per share, a fall of 14 percent year-on-year.
Earnings would be supported by the acquisition of dredging firm De Holland and Boskalis' doubling of its stake in Finnish Terramare OY to 80 percent earlier this year, Verbraeken said.
"They're small, but every bit helps," he said. Verbraeken conceded he was "less negative than the market" on Boskalis, whose order books were well-filled.
By contrast Bank Labouchere's Sven Smit was extremely bearish on the dredger's first-half outlook, predicting net profit of 18.3 million guilders or 72 cents per share.
"There will undoubtedly be a major profit fall," he said. The protracted winter in Europe and a lack of major orders to compensate for the completion of lucrative projects in Hong Kong would drag down earnings, he said.
Longer term, however, the dredging market was seen picking up slightly although margins were at structurally lower levels, he said.
"The outlook for 1997 and 1998 is better," Smit said.
Deutsche Bank's Konrad Zomer is forecasting net of 32 million guilders, based on expectations of "reasonable" capacity utilisation generated in part by maintenance work.
"The firm will almost certainly post lower profits year-on-year, but it is difficult to gauge whether some orders were undertaken just in profit or at a marginal loss," he said.
The first half would have been difficult, but Boskalis' order portfolio -- pegged at just over one billion guilders in March -- was developing well, he added.
For the full year Zomer is forecasting net earnings of 2.60 guilders per share versus 2.79 in 1995.
But he added that in 1997 Boskalis' share of an 800 million guilder order to expand Singapore's Chiangi airport would work through into profits.
"The market is heading for an upturn in 1997," Zomer said, adding the increase in demand would likely be enough to absorb a 15 percent rise in capacity as three new jumbo suction hopper dredgers are taken into service late this year and early next.
-- Amsterdam newsroom +31 20 504 5000, Fax +31 20 504 5040