Shareholders of Swiss temporary personnel firm Adia on Tuesday approved a merger with Ecco of France that will create Adecco SA, rival to the world's biggest jobs group, Manpower Inc of the U.S.
Shareholders voted in favour of the move at a special annual general meeting by approving a capital increase for Adia.
"Whilst the merger will unlock substantial long-term value for the shareholders of both our companies, we also believe strongly that there are signifanct benefits to be gained for our clients and colleagues," Adia chairman Klaus Jacobs said.
The capital increase is intended to fulfill an Adia offer of share swaps or cash for Ecco shares, making way for Adia capital to become the stock of the new group.
Adia said it had been offered 98 percent of Ecco's shares for cash or swap. The remainder will be bought on the market, Adia said in a statement after the shareholder meeting.
Shareholders voted for a nominal capital increase of 95,347,000 Swiss francs ($78.86 million) through issuing shares worth a nominal 10 Swiss francs each, priced at issue at 43.23 Swiss francs.
The measure will raise a total of 412,185,081 Swiss francs.
"The newly created Adia bearer shares (par value 10 Swiss francs) will have the same status as the existing ones in every respect and will be fully paid for by non-cash capital contributions in the form of Ecco SA shares", the statement said.
Adia said the capital increase was expected to be completed in the course of this week.
Adecco shares will be listed where Adia is now present, on the Swiss Exchnage and as ADR's (American Depositery Receipts) listed on NASDAQ in the United States.
The Adecco shares will also be listed in Paris in place of Ecco.
Adia said Adecco's market share will be 27 percent in France, 21 percent in Australia, 26 percent in Switzerland, 27 percent in Spain, and four percent in the United States.
Peter Pfister, Adia chief financial officer and who will take the same post at Adecco, declined at a news conference declined to make any detailed projections about the results expected by the new company.
However, he said cash flow in coming years for the new firm would be "strong" and added that there would be synergies.
He repeated an earlier forecast that Adecco would see a net loss for 1997, its first full year, due to goodwill amortisation.
Adia chief executive John Bowmer told the news conference that Adia had shown strong growth in the second and third quarters of its current business year, which ends September 30.
"Sales have bounced back in the U.S. on a year on year basis to (a growth rate of) 15 percent," he said.
Growth was also strong in Britain and the Netherlands but flat in Germany and Switzerland. Bowmer said.
($1=1.2090 Swiss Franc)