Dutch tank storage and shipping group Pakhoed NV said on Tuesday it expected net profit from ordinary operations in the second half of 1996 to be "clearly higher" than in the same period of 1995.  
Pakhoed posted a first-half net profit of 4.6 million guilders, down from 61.4 million in the year-ago period.
This year's figure included a 54.3 million guilder extraordinary charge because of the sale of the Furness subsidiary and a restructuring of Pakhoed's Rotterdam tank storage operations.
"Apart from the costs in relation to the final transfer of Furness we don't expect further extraordinary charges in the second half-year of 1996," the firm said in a statement.
It added its leading positions in logistics and distribution would be a strong basis for further earnings development.  
Pakhoed said the reorganisation would cause substantial cost reductions at the units concerned. In addition, the sale of Furness and the previously announced takeover of U.S. chemicals distributor Univar Corp would have an important effect.
"Royal Pakhoed has taken several important measures aimed at implementing the strategic objectives and which will have a substantial effect on Pakhoed's results for 1996 and will put Pakhoed in a much better position for the future," it said.
Pakhoed offered $19.45 per Univar share in June. It said it now owned 97 percent of all Univar shares and said the deal had a total value of 521 million guilders.  
The company used standby facilities to pay for the Univar takeover but said it intends to carry out a refinancing operation in the autumn of this year.
"A study is currently under way to determine the extent and conditions of the refinancing, also depending on the financial divesture of Furness and the determination of the goodwill involved in the acquisition of Univar," Pakhoed said.
Earlier this month, it said it had reached a tentative agreement on selling Furness to industrial investment firm Hollandia Industriele Maatschappij NV.
-- Amsterdam newsroom +31 20 504 5000, Fax +31 20 504 5040