Halifax Building Society said on Tuesday its stock market flotation was on track for June 1997 and its members would find out their share in the new bank with the publication of the transfer document in early 1997.
The push towards conversion to bank status, plus the integration of rival society Leeds Permanent and insurance group Clerical Medical, means further acquisitions would be unlikely this year, spokesman Gary Marsh told Reuters in an interview.
"We look at non-organic as well as organic growth, but that's the story for 1997," said Marsh.  
He said the society always looked at merger opportunities but would not pursue any acquisitions if they risked delaying its flotation, first announced in November 1994.
The owner-members of the mutually-owned society -- its savers and borrowers -- will vote on the flotation plans in February 1997, Marsh said, with the flotation probably in June, provided it gets the go-ahead from its regulator.
Halifax's flotation is expected to bring the biggest single boost to share ownership in Britain. With an estimated size of 10 billion stg, it dwarfs the planned flotations of the other societies intending to seek bank status.  
Marsh said the integration costs of Clerical Medical were not likely to be great and that further job cuts as a result of the merger with Leeds Permanent were not expected.
It has already said it expects to cut 200 jobs in its head office by the end of 1997 as a result of the Leeds merger.
The merger with Clerical Medical is expected to be completed by the end of the year, Halifax said.
Halifax said its financial services arm achieved 23 million stg of profits in the first half of the year, compared with seven million stg in the six months to January 1996.  
The society said it had changed its financial year end from January 31 to December 31 and its results for January 1996 were included in two of the reported periods, including a 88.2 million stg charge for merger and integration costs.
Overall, it made pre-tax profits of 649 million stg in the six months to June 30.
It said its retail banking arm took 8.0 percent of new current accounts, compared with a market share of existing stock of three percent.
Growth in personal loans was 22 percent in the six months to June and the amount borrowed on credit cards grew 10 percent.  
It set up a new Halifax General Insurance unit in April 1996 to manage its general lines personal insurance and said it was gradually bringing in-house the responsibility for product design, premium collection and claims handling.
To develop a capital structure for its conversion to bank status, Halifax said it had issued 775 million stg of subordinated debt in recent months.
It said total assets rose to over 100 billion stg and its gross capital ratio rose from 7.99 percent to 8.64 percent.
Halifax said it had cut its cost/income ratio to 41.4 percent from 43.0 percent and said it took a 54 million stg charge for provisions, slightly up on the previous six months.
-- London Newsroom +44 171 542 5113