Thistle Hotels Plc confirmed on Tuesday that it would be floating on the London Stock Exchange, with plans for a share offer which will kick off in September.
Thistle will use the cash raised to repay debt and invest in its hotel portfolio. The group is one of the biggest hotel groups in the UK.
Weekend press reports speculated that the float could value the company as high as 1.5 billion stg.
Thistle's parent company, Brierley Investments Ltd of New Zealand, is expected to retain a significant minority stake in the hotelier.
Brierley owns 70 percent of the company , with the remaining stake held by investment arms of the Goverment of Singapore.
In its interim results statement which reported a near doubling of pretax and pre-exceptional profits to 24.1 million stg, Thistle said an indicative price range will be accounced at the time of the share offer.
Under the float plans Brierley will reduce its stake to below 50 percent, said the Thistle press statement, with a reduction also expected by the Singapore government.
In addition, the UK hotelier expects to raise another 250 million stg of new money.
As part of its flotation plans Thistle will introduce an Owners Club which will give individual shareholders, with a minimum-sized holding, access to a range of benefits and discounts.
Small investors who buy shares and keep them will be known as Founder Members, enjoying greater benefits.
The minimum application for shares is 1,000 stg. Baring Brothers International Ltd will act as sponsor and financial adviser and Merrill Lynch International as global co-ordinator, bookrunner and stockbroker.
Thistle owns 64 four-star hotels out of a total of 100 with more than 13,500 bedrooms.
In its results statement for the 28 weeks to July 14, Thistle said occupancy levels and the average payment rate for rooms was up across all regions. It predicted a positive outlook for the British hotel market, affording opportunities for organic growth.
The group said its results were also boosted by a larger contribution from big-spender business and leisure guests.
--London Newsroom +44 171 542 7717