Britain's largest mortgage lender Halifax Building Society said on Tuesday another quarter point cut in official interests would not necessarily lead to further falls in Britain's historically low mortgage rates.
Halifax, which plans a stock market flotation next year, took a 7.2 percent share of net mortgage lending in the first half of the year and 15.2 percent of gross mortgage lending.
This level is below its normal market share of around 20 percent, Halifax spokesman Gary Marsh told Reuters in an interview, because the society has shied away from re-mortgaging which accounts for 30 percent of the total mortgage market.  
Pricing in the re-mortgage market -- when borrowers do not move home but shift their lender -- deterred the Halifax from competing actively, the society said.
"Given our size and position we can stand back," said Marsh.
Halifax's much-watched house price index for the 12 months to July showed a 5.3 percent rise.
"All the signs are that the recovery is sustainable," said Marsh. "We could well see houes price inflation in the 5.0 to 7.0 percent bracket for the next year or so," he added.
Such a rise would avoid a boom and bust scenario and at last see house prices rise above the rate of inflation, said Marsh.  
Mortgage rates, at their lowest for 30 years, may not fall further even if the Bank of England cuts its official 5.75 percent official base rate.
"If they (base rates) were to come down another quarter point you wouldn't necessarily expect further cuts in mortgage rates," said Marsh, although he said Halifax would look to see how its competitors reacted to such a cut.
"(Mortgage rates) are at or around their trough," said Marsh.
The size of the re-mortgage market is accounted for the by the low level of transactions -- home movers -- in the market.  
"Transactions are still at very low levels....but coming back quite nicely," said Marsh.
So far this year net lending is eight billion stg, which the Halifax forecasts will reach 16 billion stg by year end. That compares with 40 billion stg in the boom year of 1988, he said.
He said Halifax's profits in the first half of the year would have been 64 million stg higher if the society had not written off its mortgage incentives -- discounted rates and cashbacks -- straight away.
Halifax said it made pre-tax profits of 649 million stg in the six months to June 30.  
Before exceptionals that was a six percent rise compared with the six month period to January 31.
Halifax said it had changed its year end from January 31 to Dcember 31 and its results for January 1996 were included in two of the reported periods, including a 88.2 million stg charged for merger and integration costs.
The society said it was increasingly confident about the state of the housing market. "With a more disciplined marketing environment we see more profitable organic growth in mortgage lending emerging in the second half of this year and into the next," the society said.
-- Jill Treanor, London Newsroom +44 171 542 5113