Command Petroleum Ltd said a water injection well drilled in the Ravva contract area offshore India has indicated additional reserves of oil in the Ravva field.
It said the RD-3 well, the first of five down-flank water injection wells to be drilled in the next two years, intersected a greater than predicted oil column of a gross 210 feet.
There was 172 feet of net oil pay with an average porosity of 24 percent, it said.
The oil-water contact was 43 feet below the previously interpreted field contact and the top of the main reservoir was 89 feet higher than the pre-drill prognosis, it said.  
"Repeat Formation Testing (RFT) indicates that the two main (M30 and M20) reservoirs in the well are in communication with each other and with the equivalent reservoir units in the three producing wells drilled along the crest of the structure," Command said.
This suggested that oil will be efficiently recovered from the reservoir, it said.
A previously undrilled three metre net oil sand with an average porosity of 25 percent was also encountered by the well about 548 feet above the main reservoir.
This sand was not included in the net/gross figures.  
During the field's life, the oil encountered in the main reservoir in RD-3 will be accessed by, and produced through, the crestal wells, Command said.
RD-3 will, therefore, be completed as a dual oil producer-water injector and will be used as an oil producer in the short term, prior to the need for pressure maintenance.
The next well to be drilled is the RE-1 oil development well, it said.
Command said preparations were underway on Tuesday to complete RD-3 after it reached total depth of 7461 feet.  
RD-3 was drilled at inclinations up to 45 degrees although all depths and thicknesses quoted in its report have been corrected to true vertical depths, Command said.
The bottom hole location of RD-3 is about 1100 metres southwest of the RD platform, it added.
Participating interests in Ravva are India's state-owned Oil & Natural Gas Corp Ltd 40 percent, Command Petroleum (India) Pty Ltd (operator) 22.5 percent, Videocon Group unit Videocon Petroleum Ltd 25 percent and Marubeni Corp unit Ravva Oil (Singapore) Pte Ltd 12.5 percent.
-- Sydney Newsroom 61-2 9373-1800