British Airways Plc (BA) chief executive Robert Ayling said he was optimistic about "open skies" talks between Britain and the United States on liberalising air travel between the two countries.
New attempts to negotiate an "open skies" deal began in July after BA and American Airlines urged the governments to free up competition as a condition for approving their proposed plans to join forces on the trans-Atlantic market.
Ayling told a National Aviation Press Club luncheon in Sydney on Tuesday that pending regulatory approvals, the BA-American Airlines tie-up should be ready by April 1997.  
"We are optimistic that there is enough coincidence of policy that there would be an agreement between the two aeronautical authorities and then being cleared by the competition authorities, and if all that happens, it will go ahead on the first of April (1997)," Ayling said.
However, BA's existing trans-Atlantic partner USAir, in which the British carrier has a 24.6 percent stake, wants to sue BA over its planned alliance with American Airlines.
USair also wants BA to sell its stake in USAir and remove its board represenatives.  
Ayling said he has not spoken to any USAir executives over the legal wrangle.
"Unfortunately the USAir partnership did not go the way we would have liked," Ayling said.
"We have hoped that USAir would have been involved in these new arrangements and indeed we were discussing that possibility with them, when completely out of the blue, the nature of the discussion with USAir changed and instead of being about this, it was against a background of legal proceedings," he said.  
"I think they were unjustified ... but perhaps the nature of business relations in the United States is more contentious there than we are used to," Ayling said.
The United States and Britain will resume talks next week toward reaching a liberalised agreement on aviation services.
Ayling was in Sydney to visit the operations of BA's 25 percent owned Qantas Airways Ltd.
-- Sydney newsroom 61-2 9373 1800