Melbourne broker J.B. Were and Son has issued a long term buy recommendation for News Corp Ltd preferred stock, saying its current discount to ordinary stock was excessive and should narrow in the long term.
The report, prepared by Were analyst Craig Connelly, argues that the discount should narrow as the market becomes more comfortable with the issue of limited voting securities.
"We expect investors to decide to place their faith in a management team, and then look for which security will offer the best value entry into the stock. The limited voting securities offer a premium yield with a higher dividend," the report said.  
At 12.15 p.m. (0215 GMT), News Corp preferred shares were at A$5.35, a discount of A$1.14 or 17.6 percent to the ordinary stock which was trading at A$6.49. The preferred stock pays a minimum 20 percent premium relative to the ordinary dividend.
News Corp has about 977 million preferred shares on issue compared to 1.967 billion ordinary shares.
The company has recently proposed to issue 164 million preferred shares to convert the special dividend shares of its News International subsidiary and to issue about 468 million preferred shares to fund its acquisition of New World Communications Group Inc.  
The Were report said the discount of the preferred stock to ordinary stock had widened considerably since these proposed transactions were announced due to a view that a diminishing proportion of shareholders had control of a growing assset base.
"We believe that this argument ignores the current ownership structure of News Corp - essentially, an investment in News Corp is an investment in Mr Murdoch, his management team, the company he has built and continues to build," the report said.  
In the short term, Were said it expected the discount would remain wide until the market factored out stock 'overhang' from New World Communications shareholders, and focused on long term value being created by acqusitions and business development.
The report also said the issue of additional preferred shares would increase the liquidity of this class of security.
"Liquidity appears to be the issue of prime concern in the U.S. where non-voting securities which are more liquid than the ordinary shares begin to trade at a premium," the report said.
-- Sydney Newsroom 61-2 373-1800