El Al Israel Airlines is considering using a Boeing 747 aircraft for its weekly Tel Aviv to Hong Kong service, providing another seven tonnes of cargo capacity and a non-stop service, the carrier's general manager for China, Hong Kong and east Asia, Abraham Roter said.
He was speaking to Reuters in a telephone interview from Beijing.
An informal air services agreement currently exists between the two countries which allows the Israeli flag carrier to offer a once weekly service on Thursdays from Hong Kong to Tel Aviv with a refuelling stop in Tashkent.
Roter said the airline is now considering a Boeing 747 -- instead of the current Boeing 767 -- which would increase cargo capacity from 10 to 17 tonnes and be non-stop from Tel Aviv. But he said the return flight would have a stop, possibly in Bombay.
"The route is getting better and we could utilise better capacity for the passenger. Negotiations towards a bilateral agreement have been going on for almost a year between the two governments. They have still to be signed but that is a formality," Roter said.
"We would like to intensify our operation in the Far East because we believe there is tremendous potential here. And with the continuation of the Middle East peace process we can see a big market for tourism in the eastern Mediterranean for people from this part of the world," he added.
El Al now fly to six Asian destinations: Hong Kong, Beijing, South Korea, Bangkok, Delhi and Bombay.
A Hong Kong government spokeswoman confirmed that talks had taken place between Israel and Hong Kong to review the current informal arrangement. She said a formal air services agreement is not needed for El Al flights to continue after next year's Hong Kong handover to China.
"We have informal agreements with many other countries of which Israel is one and it has been reviewed. There may have been changes to the confidential memorandum of understanding between the countries but even if it had been changed it would not be disclosed," she said.
--Air Cargo Newsroom Tel +44 171 542 8982 Fax +44 171 542 5017