Taiwan's state-owned Chinese Petroleum Corp (CPC) is keeping on hold crude processing arrangements with two refiners in Okinawa until the issue of costs is resolved, a CPC source said on Tuesday.
CPC had a term processing deal with Okinawa's Nansei Sekiyu KK refinery for more than two years which expired in February and has not yet been renewed.
CPC processed 10,000-15,000 barrels per day (bpd) of Oman crude under the term deal with the refinery, which belongs to the General Sekiyu group.  
The Taiwanese firm also had a spot processing deal with Okinawa Sekiyu Seisei, an Idemitsu Kosan facility, to process a 500,000-barrel cargo between September and October last year.
Sekiyu Seisei is trying to forge a term processing deal with CPC, the source said.
"We are not keen to renew or initiate new processing deals as we have no difficulties buying (oil products) from the market," the source said.  
"Only until the processing economics prove to be attractive to CPC, there is no incentive for us to continue with the processing deals. From a commercial point of view, we prefer to import. But we will not preclude the possiblity that high ranking decisions could be made based on political considerations," the source said.
The source said in addition to processing fees, CPC and the two refiners could not yet agree on the "yield ratio" or the breakdown of products to be lifted under the the processing deals.  
But the source would neither reveal the processing fee that CPC is seeking nor the rate that the refineries are asking under the negotiations.
The source said the costs have changed from earlier deals because CPC has decided to lift better quality 0.5 percent sulphur fuel oil to meet stringent environmental regulations. It lifted 1.0 percent sulphur fuel oil previously.
Taiwan's environmental regulations also require it to use better grade gasoline.  
But as the Okinawa refineries do not have facilities to blend methyl tertiary-butyl ether (MTBE), its gasoline would not meet CPC's improved specifications, the source said. MTBE is an additive to boost the octane number of gasoline.
However, CPC would not have any problems lifting 0.5 percent sulphur gas oil from Okinawa because it exports the monthly cargo outside Taiwan, the source said.
--Ramthan Hussain, Singapore newsroom (+65-8703084)