Satellite operator PT Asia Cellular Satellite (ACeS) unveiled ambitious plans on Tuesday to capture a large chunk of the Asia-Pacific mobile telecommunications market.
"We aim to capture at least 600,000 subscribers across the Asia-Pacific after two to three years in operation," chief executive officer Adi Adiwoso told Reuters.
"The aim may look overly ambitious. But it is not if you know that our satellite covers three billion people in the Asia-Pacific," Adiwoso said.
ACeS is equally owned by Indonesia's PT Pasifik Satelit Nusantara, the Philippine Long Distance Telephone Company and Thailand's Jasmine International Overseas Company, Ltd which is a subsidiary of telecoms giant Jasmine International Public Company Ltd.
"The target also looks small if you consider that each of our satellites will be capable of supporting up to two million subscribers and providing at least 11,000 simultaneous telephone channels," Adiwoso said.  
"Our initial focus is, however, on the more than 330 million people living in Indonesia, Thailand and the Phillipines where we are building the initial gateways," Adiwoso said.
He said the ACeS's Garuda satellites, being built by Lockheed Martin Corporation of the United States, will enable any cellular telephone subscriber to make phone calls to some 24 countries in the Asia-Pacific region.
"You can use your cellular hand phone from any remote island in Indonesia to a cellular user in a remote place in Pakistan. The cost for using our satellite's service is only one (U.S.) dollar for one minute air time," Adiwoso said.
He said the ACeS system would also enable cellular telephone users to call fixed telephone subscribers anywhere in the world through its gateways.
The first Garuda satellite is scheduled for launch in the middle of 1998 and after the completion of in-orbit testing, the ACeS system will be operational in the second half of 1998, the firm said.
Adiwoso was upbeat on the prospects of the satellite-based ACeS system, noting that the high infrastructure costs associated with terrestrial networks can only be supported by areas with high population density.  
ACeS, with its satellite-based mobile communications system, offers an attractive alternative for many developing countries like the archipelagic Indonesia and the Phillipines, he said.
A large, but dispersed demand exists outside major areas of these developing nations that will never be adequately served by terrestrial systems, he said.
ACeS was incorporated in Indonesia's Batam island, which borders Singapore, in June 1995 with paid-up capital of $210 million.
Adiwoso said the company is considering seeking some $300 million in loans from overseas markets, in addition to a $210 million loan from shareholders, to finance its $720 million investment.
"We are still considering the types of financial instruments that we would seek. The final decision is expected to be made in October this year," he said.