China on Tuesday suspended trading of Shandong Bohai Group Co on suspicion of violating accounting rules, the first such case since the Shanghai stock market reopened in 1990, Shanghai Securities News said.
The China Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRC), in a preliminary investigation of the firm's 1996 interim report, found entries that contravened China's accounting regulations, the paper quoted a CSRC spokesman as saying.
Chinese stock analysts said Shandong Baohai, a domestic A share company, was the first Shanghai-listed firm to be suspended from trading for violation of accounting rules in the five-year history of China's modern stock market.
They said the violations indicated that a handful of Chinese listed firms, which have performed poorly in the past few years, had resorted to irregularities to please investors.
If the trend was not checked, it would damage the image of the nation's stock market, analysts said.
The CSRC spokesman said the amounts involved in Shandong Bohai's case were large.
The commission is investigating further. Trading of the firm's shares will be suspended until the investigation is completed, he said. CSRC officials in Beijing reached by telephone declined to give details.
Shanghai brokers said the problem was linked to the firm's re-evaluation of its fixed assets in its interim report.
The report said a re-evaluation of the company's fixed assets, including a major piece of land, added 185.32 million yuan ($22.33 million) to its capital.
"This apparently violated both Chinese and international accounting regulations," said a veteran accountant with a major Chinese accouting house. "The regulations say that, if a company continues to operate, all its capital should be booked on the basis of historical value."
The report said that, based on re-valued assets, the firm planned to issue a 10-for-10 bonus issue to all shareholders.
Shandong Bohai, which mainly produces and sells material for the energy sector, performed poorly in 1995, with net profit falling by a year-on-year 38.24 percent.
"The company's performance was very poor last year," said a senior stock analyst with a major Chinese brokerage. "It tried to make very generous interim returns to attract investors."  
Analysts said the firm had been punished in the past after it was found to have speculated in trading its own shares.
"If such irregularities are not properly checked, they will greatly damage the image of China's stock market and listed firms," said an analyst with a Chinese business consultancy.
A Shangdong Bohai spokesman declined to comment. "We will cooperate with the CSRC investigation," he said. "After it reaches a conclusion, we will make an announcement."
The last quoted price for the A share of Shandong Bohai was 13.00 yuan at the close of trading last Friday. There was no trading of the stock on Monday.