China's top motorcycle maker on Tuesday announced disappointing first-half results, blaming weak sales, fakes and ferocious competition.
China Jialing Industrial Group reported first-half net profit of 83.064 million yuan ($10 million), down from 149.368 million in the same 1995 period, on turnover of 1.912 billion yuan, down from 2.237 billion.
In a statement the company blamed a weak market, tight credit which increased the costs of funds, a chaotic market with fakes and unfair competition and price-cutting.
Analysts said supply, boosted by fakes and smuggled cycles, was in excess of domestic demand.
Official figures published on Sunday show that China's motorcycle output in the first half was 4.25 million units, up 22 percent on the same 1995 period, with sales of only 3.8 million, up 12 percent.
By the end of June, national stocks had reached 680,000, up 200 percent from a year earlier, and equivalent to one month's production, the figures showed.
In the first half of 1996, Jialing produced 605,623 motorcycles, ranking first in China, the company said.
An analyst with a foreign brokerage said that because of the intense competition Jialing and other major makers had cut prices in both January and April, which had hurt profits.
"Production in China has outstripped demand," he said. "The government wants to consolidate the industry into a few large conglomerates but local governments do not agree, preferring to protecting their own small-scale manufacturers."
"Another factor is widespread smuggling of motorcycles, especially of larger models, in coastal areas and production of fake Jialings," he said. "The market is chaotic and hard for the government to control. Motorcycles are seen as profitable."
While the market potential in rural areas remains large, many major Chinese cities which already suffer from traffic congestion restricting the number of motorcycles, limiting demand.
The company said another factor to hit its earnings this year was the high income tax rate of 33 percent that it had to pay when many of its competitors were paying a lower rate.
"Many of them pay just 15 percent," said a Jialing spokeswoman by telephone from its headquarters in the southwest city of Chongqing. "Our competitors get the lower rate from local governments or from being in special economic zones."
"We have repeatedly asked the central government for a tax reduction but have had no reply so far," she said.
The spokeswoman said it was hard for the government to control the sale and volume of fakes, which include many products and not only motorcycles. "Consumers, companies and the government must work together to solve this problem and it cannot be settled in a short time," she said.
She said sales would pick up in the second half of 1996, with the first part of the year traditionally being a dull season, but declined to give full-year forecasts.
($1=8.3 yuan)