Dutch financial services group Internationale Nederlanden Groep NV is expected to announce a leap of up to 32 percent in net profit on Thursday, August 22, with banking outstripping insurance in earnings growth.
Analysts polled by Reuters estimate net profits in the first half of calendar 1996 at between 1.46 billion and 1.56 billion guilders, compared with 1.18 billion a year earlier.
They said the growth rate was largely the result of the 42 percent surge in first quarter profits, when banking activities in emerging markets such as Latin America bounced back from losses in the same period of 1995.
"In the second quarter they faced a far more difficult comparison base, particularly on the banking side," said Heinie Hakker at BZW Nederland.
Analysts see profits before tax from banking as high as 1.09 billion guilders, a gain of 46 percent from the first half of 1995, with most of this increase coming in the first quarter.
Interim pre-tax insurance profits are forecast to have risen by between 11 and 17 percent to between 1.10 billion and 1.16 billion.
Analysts were divided however over whether Barings, the British merchant bank bought for 1.7 billion guilders in March 1995, would be profitable after interest charges.
Kempen and Co analyst Hans Pluijgers said ING's banking activities benefitted from many of the same factors as rival ABN AMRO's, such as buoyant financial markets.
But he added: "The insurance activities are having a dampening effect on the result."
Pluijgers said he would be interested in whether ING made more provisions for future costs, including losses on aircraft leasing, after making no such allowances in the first quarter.
Bart van der Feen de Lille of IRIS Research said ING's trading and commission income would have grown strongly but not as fast as at ABN AMRO, which has a greater relative exposure to equities markets and less to bond markets than ING.
ABN AMRO last week posted a 36 percent jump in interim net profit at 1.7 billion guilders, helped by booming share markets which boosted trading income and fees from share offerings.
CS First Boston analyst Kishore Banger said ING's first quarter profits were exceptional because of banking but he saw insurance providing a solid increase in the second quarter.
He also expected double digit growth in insurance profits in the first six months of 1996.
"Where's there's scope for a surprise (in the half year), it's on the banking side," Banger added.
-- Garry West, Amsterdam newsroom +31 20 504 5000