Sun International Hotels Ltd. has agreed to acquire Griffin Gaming & Entertainment Inc., formerly Resorts International, in a stock exchange worth about $210 million, the companies said Monday.
Entertainer and investor Merv Griffin, chairman of Griffin Gaming, controls about 25 percent of the stock of Griffin Gaming, which operates a casino hotel in Atlantic City, N.J.
Sun decided to acquire Griffin Gaming because of the planned expansion of Griffin's Resorts hotel and the lure of gaining an immediate presence in Atlantic City, N.J., Sun Chairman Sol Kerzner said.
"We believe teaming up with Merv Griffin is a dynamic way for Sun International to enter the Atlantic City market and combines Sun International's development strengths and Merv Griffin's legendary entertainment skills," Kerzner, who is also chief executive of Bahamas-based Sun International, said in a statement.
Kerzner said in a conference call that the company might not have been interested in pursuing the acquisition without the expansion plans.
Griffin Gaming's proposed $200 million expansion of the 662-room Resorts Hotel would make the complex as large as the Taj Mahal casino, Atlantic City's largest. The Taj Mahal is owned by Trump Hotels & Casino Resorts Inc.
Resorts is being enlarged by 700 rooms and 70,000 square feet of casino space, the company said.
The prospect of Sun opening a Connecticut gaming facility near the Foxwoods Casino added to the deal's allure for Griffin's shareholders, Griffin Gaming Chief Executive Thomas Gallagher said.
The acquisition would reunite Sun's Paradise Island property in the Bahamas, which once part of Resorts, with Griffin Gaming.
Griffin Gaming Chairman Merv Griffin, who will hold about 4 percent of Sun International, said he was impressed with what Kerzner did with Paradise Island after Sun bought it.
Griffin has owned Resorts International for eight years, during which time the company restructured twice, Griffin said. A Griffin spokesman said separately the company had declared bankruptcy under one of the reorganizations.
"Our merger with Sun International will begin a brand new era for Resorts," Merv Griffin said. "Sol Kerzner and I have joined to create a formidable leader in the gaming industry in which I will have a significant shareholding.
For Sun International, the deal puts the company into the Atlantic City market faster than its plan to buy land adjoining a proposed MGM Grand Inc. resort, Kerzner said.
Under the deal, each share of Griffin common stock will be traded for 0.4324 ordinary shares of Sun International. Sun International's stock closed at $51.875 on Friday, implying a purchase price of $22.43 for each share of Griffin's common stock.
On Monday, Sun International stock fell 12.5 cents to $51.75, while Griffin rose 37.5 cents to $12.25. The deal was announced after the close of trading.