Stratosphere Corp., without a doubt operator of the tallest hotel and casino in Las Vegas, is looking mighty low these days.
Four months after the 1,149-foot tower, casino and hotel complex opened at the north end of the "Strip," Stratosphere has proved a major disappointment. Earnings are off, occupancy is low and the casino's design has been turning gamblers away.
Its stock has tumbled to $1.625 a share from a high of $14 in April, and its bonds haven't faired any better.
"There was a perception that the tower would be such a phenomenal draw that it would carry the load," President Richard Schuetz said in an interview.
Just three weeks into the job, Schuetz is revamping operations to appeal to locals and tourists, rather than high-rollers. He is slashing room rates, revamping the casino and plans to launch a grand marketing scheme Oct. 1.
In a city of glitzy hotels, Stratosphere's tower dominates the Las Vegas horizon. When it opened, its restaurant, observation deck and small-scale amusement park in the sky were expected to draw 100,000 people per week.
But only 77,000 a week actually visited, and Stratosphere learned they were not staying to gamble.
Unfortunately, its problems did not end there. The hotel and casino targeted high-rollers, but its location near a seedy section of Las Vegas kept them away.
Moreover, construction cost overruns and delays kept the resort from being fully finished before it opened.
Salomon Brothers had forecast Stratosphere to generate a pre-opening profit of $2.8 million, or 5 cents a share, on revenues of $55 million for the quarter ended in June. Instead, its operations lost $7.8 million, or 19 cents a share, after pre-opening costs, on $30 million in sales.
Furthermore, Stratosphere faces a $15 million interest payment on its $203 million of outstanding First Mortgage Notes and bondholders are worried they may not be paid.
Early Wednesday, Stratosphere said it hired Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette to advise it on a possible debt restructuring after it said last week it might not continue operations if it could not restructure its debt load.
The bonds, which traded in the mid-90s just last week, have stabilised at a bid price around 82 percent of face value, or $820 on a $1,000 bond.
Though analysts cite a lot of uncertainty, they believe the company and its debtholders will eventually revamp the deal because it is in best interest of both parties.
"I don't expect an agreement soon," said Robert Evans, equity analyst at Minneapolis-based John G. Kinnard & Co, "But I don't think they have a great number of options."
Striking a deal could take anywhere from 30 to 90 days or more, and would likely include a debt for equity swap, sources familiar with the situation said.
Analysts said this would dilute the stock, and Evans advised staying away from the stock until a debt deal is done.
Meanwhile back at the tower, which Stratosphere touts as the tallest structure west of the Mississippi River, Schuetz says he is more concerned with the "Strip" than the "Street."
On July 29, Grand Casino Inc., a 42-percent owner of Stratosphere, hired Schuetz to turn the company around.
"We're not going to sit around and commiserate, we're rolling up our sleeves and fixing it," he said.
Schuetz is aiming his marketing toward local traffic and tourists looking for value. Admitting the hotel was not getting close to full, he has cut prices and has been reaching 100 percent and near 100 percent occupancy, he said.
He is also moving table games and slots, making the casino look less like a "world fair" and more like "a gamblin' store."
With October's full promotional plan, Schuetz is guaranteeing that $1 slots will pay out over 98 percent to customers. "That's never been done before," he said.
Video poker payouts will also be increased, dice game odds will be boosted, blackjack play enhanced, and "on and on."
"If you are gambling anyplace else, you are not particularly smart," Schuetz said, "because I will offer the greatest value in gambling that's ever been offered on the planet."
All that underneath the tallest tower west of the Mississippi.