Japanese game maker Sega Enterprises Ltd. said Wednesday it had decided to ban the use of software depicting sexually explicit and excessively violent scenes for its television game machines.
Sega, fearing that it may lose control over the content of the software for its sophisticated game machines, wants to protect it and the industry's image from criticism as video game users increase in line with the development of more sophisticated machines, a Sega spokesman said.
Although Sega is the first to impose tighter standards on the type of software it will allow for its game machines, major software makers agree that sex and violence in software is a looming problem and have set up an industry body to monitor that issue as well as others.
In Japan, people have so far not been as vocal about criticising the use of sex and violence in computer and television game software as they have been in the United States and Europe.
Sega spokesman Munehiro Umemura said the company would eliminate its adult-category games, including sexually explicit graphics, and impose stricter standards for games recommended for those over 18 years old from October.
Under the new rule, photographs and animated pictures of naked women will not be allowed. Figures in swimming suits or underwear will not appear in any games for those under 18 years of age.
"The development of 32-bit and 64-bit game machines has made expressions more realistic and precise computer graphics possible," Umemura said.
"The variety of game programmes as well as the customer base is expanding sharply these days. We need to consider more about younger children, or the healthy development of the industry will be jeopardised," he said.
Confusing distribution channels, such as difficulty in separating sales counters for children and adult games, has also prompted Sega to do away with sexually explicit games, he said.
Other game makers, such as Sony Computer Entertainment and Nintendo Co., have relied on their own code of ethics that bans sexually explicit content in their software.
Sony said it had already banned figures of nude women from appearing in its PlayStation software. It has also put a warning seal on programmes which depict violent scenes, a spokeswoman said.
Early this week, the Computer Entertainment Software Association, a software makers' group comprised of 90 member firms, decided to formulate a code of ethics to keep sex and violence out of their software.
The code, to be set as early as this autumn, would have to be followed by all member firms, including the major listed ones such as Square Co., Konami Co. and NAMCO Ltd.
"It's not desirable that adult or violent scenes appear in such household games," the association's spokesman Takuji Kanda said. "We hope as many makers as possible will join our organisation," he said.
So far, about half of the mainstream software makers have become members of the group out of some 400 firms engaged in software development for video games and compact disc read-only memories.
About 200 firms which specialise in video and computer programmes targeted at adult customers have yet to become members, he said.