One day after dropping its unsolicited $460 million bid for Rexene Corp., Huntsman Corp. said Wednesday it exected to announce two major acquisitions in the next 30 days.
The nation's largest privately-held chemicals company was also pursuing acquisitions in Europe as part of its goal to double revenues from 1995's $4.3 billion by the end of 2000. Much of that growth is expected to come from acquisitions.
Chairman Jon Huntsman said the two anticipated transactions included the purchase of a major polymers unit of a publicly-held company and the acquisition of a privately-held packaging company.
Although he did not reveal the names of the companies, citing confidentiality agreements, he said both firms have annual revenues of more than $100 million.
Huntsman discussed the company's future in a telephone interview from a hotel room in San Diego, where the patriarch of the family-owned company had gathered with eight of his nine children for an annual retreat that mixes family business with family vacation.
The 59-year-old devout Mormon and philanthropist said he was flying to Europe on Saturday where "we're in the middle of negotiations there for some very major European assets that could as much as double our European business," he said.
The Salt Lake City-based firm dropped the bid for Rexene on Tuesday after the target company rejected the offer in favour of its own internal growth plan. Huntsman had proposed buying Rexene for $15 per share and the assumption of $175 million in debt.
Huntsman said he was willing to pay $16 per share for Rexene, but Rexene advisor Schroder-Wertheim indicated that offer also would be refused.
"We have several other major acquisitions going right now and I just didn't feel it was worth the time and interest to try to negotiate with someone who had no interest in really working out a fair and equitable deal for shareholders," he said.
In rejecting the Huntsman offer, Rexene said its internal growth plan would best serve shareholder interests.
Huntsman also said he had considered launching a hostile bid for Rexene, but "it's a very small industry, in the sense of the numbers of players, and it's not particularly an industry that we would want to be disruptive, or cause any type of turmoil, in."
Some takeover traders had expected Huntsman would launch a tender offer for Rexene even though the company has never pursued a hostile takeover.
Although the failure to win Rexene marked the second time in recent months that Huntsman did not win its target, the company's top executive said its acquisition course will not change. In April, Huntsman's bid for Sterling Chemicals Inc. was rejected in favour of a management buyout.
"These things don't mean a thing to us ... they're not even a blip on the scope," he said.
Huntsman has long been known for its history of successful acquisitions, including the 1994 purchase of Texaco Inc.'s chemicals business.
The family also is known for its huge charitable interests, including the Huntsman Cancer Institute in Salt Lake City and a project in Armenia to assist people who lost their homes in a devastating earthquake in 1988.