Shares of weight-loss giant Jenny Craig Inc. fell more than 30 percent on Wednesday on fears that Americans' appetites have been suppressed for now by a new weight-loss drug.
Shares of Del Mar, Calif.-based Jenny Craig lost $5.625 to $11.50 on the New York Stock Exchange, where it was the biggest percentage loser of the day.
Jenny Craig was not available to comment but issued a statement reiterating comments made on Tuesday that new weight-loss drugs were responsible for recent soft demand during the normally slow summer period.
The company said it saw the problem as short-lived, adding that it has had encouraging results from a trial of a new weight-loss programme that incorporates weight-loss drugs.
Analysts, however, questioned whether Jenny Craig can justifiably blame weak demand on the new drugs.
"It doesn't quite make sense. There are a lot of people that would go to a diet centre but they wouldn't run off to a doctor for a presciption," said David Crossen, an analyst at Montgomery Securities.
Jenny Craig said that Redux, the new appetite suppressant drug made by Interneuron Pharmaceuticals Inc., will be a challenge for the coming year. But analysts said Redux was not the enemy.
"The availability of a drug shifts the paradigm for diets in the sense that it makes it a lot easier for a diet to work if you're taking a drug," Crossen said. "Redux is a natural ally of Jenny Craig."
Crossen said that some 400,000 people are using Redux, but that the drug was most effective as part of a diet because it suppresses hunger only temporarily.
"The reality is that Redux makes you feel like you're full. But if every time that you did feel like eating, you ate chocolate sundaes, you wouldn't lose that much weight. You've got to use Redux with a diet," he said.
Crossen said he expects a growing number of Redux users to turn to diet centres, such as Jenny Craig, for help as use of the drug becomes more popular.
Robert Cummins, an analyst at Schroder Wertheim & Co., questioned whether Americans, known as the people most prone to obesity, weren't simply growing tired of trying to lose weight.
"The consensus seems to be that the weight loss industry has been losing ground over the past several years -- maybe because people have become disillusioned with the concept of signing up for a programme to help them lose weight," he said.
Cummins noted that Jenny Craig and H.J. Heinz's Weightwatchers get a lot of repeat customers, indicating that "it's not a permanent solution."
Crossen agrees that part of the problem may be simply that diet centres do not work.
"Diet centres traditionally have not been very successful at what they've done. People fail at diets because they get hungry," he said. "Americans are getting fatter and fatter every decade."
Earlier on Wednesday CS First Boston analyst Rebecca Yarchover cut her rating on Jenny Craig to hold from buy. Yarchover declined to comment on her reasons.