ValuJet Airlines, the discount carrier that suspended service in June following a crash that left 110 people dead, said on Wednesday that it will not be able to resume operations by its Friday target date.
The airline had called back about 500 furloughed employees, ranging from pilots to reservation agents, in hopes of returning to the skies this week with seven aircraft and flights between Atlanta and five other U.S. cities.
But ValuJet said it became clear late on Tuesday that executives would not have the necessary approval from the U.S. Department of Transportation and the Federal Aviation Administration in time.
"Because we did not gain the approval of the DOT and the FAA on Tuesday, it became very clear that we would not be in operation on Friday," said airline spokesman Gregg Kenyon.
"We are hopeful of being approved to resume flight operations as soon as possible," he added.
The carrier needs a certificate of fitness from the Transportation Department and operational approval from the FAA. On Wednesday the Washington Post quoted unnamed sources as saying the Transportation Department was at least 11 days away from giving ValuJet its reguatory go-ahead.
Wednesday was the second and final day for FAA inspectors to put a ValuJet DC-9 through a series of flight exercises to determine whether the plane and its crew were up to standard.
ValuJet closed its doors in the aftermath of the May 11 Florida Everglades crash that killed 110 people. Publicity surrounding the disaster helped to encourage the FAA to step up safety inspections at the airline.
On June 18, executives signed an FAA consent order that closed the company amid a swarm of alleged safety violations. The company now must wait to see if it meets the standards laid down by the document.
"We're sitting at a red light waiting for it to turn green," said Kenyon.
As recently as Tuesday morning, ValuJet said it was hopeful of receiving Transportation Department permission to advertise and sell tickets and FAA approval to resume flight operations in time to meet its Friday deadline.
Kenyon said airline executives realised by 3 p.m. on Tuesday that they would not be able to meet their deadline, but he declined to comment further.
ValuJet has recalled 70 pilots and about 100 flight attendants for training in preparation for a resumption of service. The airline also has put into training 175 customer service agents and 175 to 200 reservation agents.