Steelmakers laid off hundreds of thousands of workers in the 1970s and '80s to get lean and mean, but the cuts have industry officials wondering where the next generation of leaders will come from.
What's more, the job cuts and plant closings have left the industry with an image that fails to attract many bright young professionals, industry officials and analysts said.
"I think there is a real shortage of fresh blood in the industry," said Chuck Bradford, a long-time industry analyst at UBS Securities. "It seems to me the industry hasn't been recruiting at all."
Steelmakers did virtually no recruiting during their years of downsizing.
Many top steel executives have worked in the industry for 20 years or more. And though Big Steel's lacklustre image has kept many top business school graduates away, the executives maintain that American steelmakers are efficient, profitable and offer opportunity to young people.
"The U.S. steel industry is very competitive on a global basis... The opportunities are there, but the industry is doing a poor job of projecting itself on campuses," said David Roderick, former chairman of USX Corp., the parent of U.S. Steel Group, the nation's largest steelmaker.
Roderick said the industry will have to do more recruiting in the next decade as the current string of top managers, now in their 50s and 60s, retires. "The industry will find that the string will run out," he said.
Kathryn Shaw, associate professor of economics at Carnegie Mellon University in Pittsburgh, said the industry's image dissuades many students, even those in Pittsburgh, from considering working for a steel producer. They prefer to seek work considered more glamorous.
"The students I see here want to go work on Wall Street," she said. "It's hard for students to show interest in an industry they don't see as growing.
"Plus the hiring demand just isn't there from the steel companies. They simply don't need young people... they've got enough bodies."
Some experts said not all students were turned off by steel's image, but rather unaware of opportunities offered by the nation's steelmakers.
"We've had no contact with steel companies," said Craig Marks, visiting professor of business and engineering at the University of Michigan in Ann Arbor. Michigan is one of the country's largest steel-producing states.
"Our students are not predisposed toward any particular industry ... they just want a challenging opportunity where they can use their background. I think all the steel companies would need to do is make a pitch."
Some steel executives said that students have shown interest in the industry.
"In the past 10 years, there has not been a year that we haven't hired at U.S. Steel," said Richard Schinagl, U.S. Steel's recruiting manager.
Schinagl said most students who go to work for U.S. Steel have technical or engineering degrees, because steelmaking has become a high-technology business.
He said U.S. Steel also recruits business graduates and has not found it difficult attracting students at the top of their class.
"Seniors today are pretty astute," he said. "We find the industry has a pretty positive image."
Schinagl noted that U.S. Steel President Paul Wilhelm and USX Chairman Tom Usher both have engineering degrees.
"Over the recent past, our leaders have been engineering graduates," he said.