A potentially cost-saving dairy cattle feed invention unveiled on Wednesday strengthened Finnish Raision Tehtaat Oy's image as an innovative food group and was immediately reflected in its share price, analysts said.
"The company's image has strengthened significantly within one year," Finnish Aktia Bank analyst Ritva Ojala told Reuters, referring to the company's new invention and Benecol, a cholesterol-reducing margarine Raisio launched early this year.
That has helped its stock rise by more than 400 percent in one year.
Raisio said it had developed and patented a feed mix formula containing an amino acid called histidine which could cut the cost of feeding dairy cattle by reducing the need for protein. It said it could be commercially viable in the next few years.
It said six grammes of histidine had the same effect on milk output as one kilogramme of protein feed.
"Raisio has done successful reseach in paper chemicals, but Benecol and the cattle feed finding show that the company really makes efforts to seek innovations in high volume products," Ojala said.
But analysts said it was too early to estimate the commercial prospects of the cattle feed finding.
"It remains to be seen how important it is, but we are positive towards the continued development in their R&D," said Kleinwort Benson analyst Michael Finney in London.
"We believe it is too early to upgrade our forecasts on the back of this, but we are still positive towards the share," he added.
An analyst at a Finnish bank said the dairy cattle feed discovery was still at a very preliminary stage compared to the Benecol margarine, and it may take many years until Raisio gets any commercial benefit from it.
"However, there may be potential, and every new invention in the animal feeds industry is important, since margins there have recently been under pressure due to higher raw material costs," she said, requesting anonymity.
The share market welcomed the new finding and Raisio shares rose sharply in lively trade after the announcement.
Raisio jumped to 322.00 markka before dipping back to 315,00, up 17.00, in late Helsinki dealings after heavy volumes.
---Helsinki Newsroom +358-0-680 50 248