Ailing Credit Lyonnais denied on Thursday a newspaper report alleging its chairman may have been negligent in taking too long to arrange swap cover for a huge loan that threatens to plunge the state bank back into the red.
The report in the Paris newspaper Liberation "is completely false," a bank spokesman said.
The daily said the finance ministry believed the bank committed a "monumental error" in waiting to cover the loan arranged as part of a state rescue of Credit Lyonnais and said it was targeting chairman Jean Peyrelevade as the culprit.
The finance ministry said it had no comment on the report which claimed the bank could have saved billions of francs in losses had it entered into swap agreements on the loan earlier.
Swaps are complex financial deals to hedge against risks such as interest rate and foreign exchange movements.
The report coincided with efforts by the bank to renegotiate the state rescue that has gone badly awry and had echos of a whispering campaign against Peyrelevade earlier in which the government was said to be unhappy over the pace of his efforts to improve the bank's finances.
Under last year's bailout, the bank transferred 130 billion francs of shaky assets to a state-backed rescue vehicle, giving it a 119 billion franc loan to finance the acquisition, part of a total 145 billion franc credit line.
To make Credit Lyonnais share in the costs of its rescue after the reckless expansion spree that brought it to its knees, the government obliged it to lend money at below-market interest rates to the rescue vehicle. But it is financing the loan at fixed rates that are nearly double money market rates.
Peyrelevade has said the loan will cost the bank three billion francs this year and could cost it two billion in 1997. Analysts say unless the rescue package is changed, it could post a net attributable loss of up to two billion francs in 1996 after eking out a 13 million franc profit in 1995.
It lost 21 billion francs between 1992 and 1994.
The newspaper said Credit Lyonnais was tardy in arranging swap cover for the loan. But the bank spokesman said it would have been "imprudent" to have taken such action until the rescue was approved by the European Commission in July 1995.
The newspaper quoted Peyrelevade as saying, "I can always reproach myself for not covering the loan at the ideal moment in May-June 1995 (after which interest rates slid). We could have reduced the loss by several hundred million francs -- not more."
The government is expected in mid-September to announce a new restructuring package for the bank, the third in three years. The bank is reportedly hoping to transfer the financing costs stemming from the bailout to another state entity.
Earlier this month, the government demanded a criminal investigation of ex-top executives of the bank for allegedly concealing losses at one of its key units. But the "get tough" approach has been seen by some bankers and analysts as an exercise to soften up the public for giving the bank another dose of public money.