Swedish forestry group MoDo AB on Wednesday reported a smaller-than-expected fall in first-half profits and said its orders for pulp, fine paper and paperboard had improved in the second quarter.
MoDo said first-half profit after financial items fell 36 percent to 1.66 billion crowns ($252 million) from 2.61 billion, adding that currency hedging had improved its result by 948 million crowns.
Analysts had expected a profit around 1.44 billion crowns, and MoDo's shares rose in Stockholm after the news, touching a peak of 188.00 crowns and closing up 2.0 at 183.00 crowns.
"The result was even better than expected," said Karl Johan Krigstrom, analyst at Merrill Lynch in London.
Analysts had anticipated some benefit from hedging for MoDo, unlike other Swedish forestry firms who have seen first-half competitiveness blunted by the strength of the crown.
MoDo chairman Bengt Pettersson told a news conference the benefit would amount to 1.5 billion crowns in full-year 1996.
"I think it's a good result," Pettersson said, noting that the forest industry during the first half had undergone a broad downturn.
But although he said he believed the latest round of pulp price increases would hold, he said it was too early to tell whether pulp markets would take a further price increase in the fourth quarter.
And he said newsprint prices were likely to show a moderate downturn. MoDo said its Holmen newsprint subsidiary had introduced some production restrictions to prevent stocks from building up.
"The discussion is not directly about price increases. It will probably lead to a moderate decrease but it is not a question of a collapse," MoDo CEO Bengt Pettersson told a news conference.
But Krigstrom said he expected a significant fall in European newsprint prices under pressure from "much lower" prices outside Europe.
MoDo said the market for pulp, paper and paperboard during the first half of the year was influenced by the general economic slowdown and the destocking process in Europe.
"However, the order intake for pulp and paper -- for which price increases have been announced -- as well as for paperboard, improved during the second quarter," it said.
Reporting first-half total sales down slightly to 10.22 billion crowns from 11.61 billion, MoDo said its total paper, paperboard and pulp deliveries fell 10 percent compared with the 1995 period to 1.3 million tonnes.
"Compared with the first quarter of 1996, second quarter delivery volumes were up by 88,000 tonnes," it said.
Although fine paper deliveries in western Europe fell nine percent in the first half with uncoated grades falling 11 percent, MoDo said orderbooks at its fine paper mills were now "back to normal" and second-quarter deliveries rose six percent compared with the first-quarter.
"The fine paper stocks held by distributors and customers are now estimated to be low," MoDo said, adding that fine paper prices had stabilised and it had announced price increases of some 10 percent to take effect in September.
MoDo said chemical pulp deliveries fell by five percent in the first half, although the order intake had recovered in recent months.