Swedish vehicle maker AB Volvo posted a slightly higher-than-expected first half profit on Wednesday, prompting a sigh of relief from financial markets.
Analysts had expressed concern about Volvo's performance in the first six months as the group battled against falling market share, higher costs and a production generation shift.
But a first half pre-tax profit of 3.86 billion swedish crowns ($584.1 million) on sales of 78.06 billion crowns against 5.33 billion crowns a year ago on 85.13 billion crowns sales appeased market fears, coming in a touch higher than the forecast 3.37 billion crowns.
Although sales were largely unchanged, analysts were relieved to see the car unit back in the black in the second quarter after two red quarters and the weaker performance of the truck unit, foreshadowed last week, not as bad as feared.
"We are feeling rather good about the rest of the year," analyst Bjorn Germer from Matteus brokerage told Reuters.
Volvo's share price edged up about four crowns after the report was released but the relief quickly wore off and Volvo closed 1.5 crowns lower at 136.5 crowns.
Analysts said the first half report reflected the new slimline Volvo, which has been actively divesting since 1994 to concentrate on its core automotive businesses, spinning off units ranging from seafood to stockbroking.
"The mix of the business has changed and we are almost into a phase now where we will just look at core operations," Salomon Bros analyst John Lawson told Reuters.
"The second quarter has given a reminder of what will be a fairly constant pattern over the next couple of years."
Volvo chief executive officer Soren Gyll said the company's divestment plan was virtually complete and first half earnings benefitted from net interest income of 633 million crowns and gains of 453 million crowns on the sale of shares.
But he said in the company report that the group's structural and industrial transformation was continuing.
"The group's two largest operating sectors, Volvo Cars and Volvo Trucks, are in a period of aggressive change," Gyll said.
From the half-year results, analysts said Volvo Car seemed to be over the worst, posting an operating profit of 187 million crowns on sales of 39.83 billion crowns after two consecutive quarters of losses.
The company's new medium-sized S40/V40 models appeared to be winning market acceptance with problems of long delivery times improving.
Volvo Car managing director Tuve Johannesson told Reuters that the unit expected to improve profitability this autumn as the S40/V40 series replaces the older 400-series.
However Volvo's truck division was stalling.
Gyll said Volvo Truck delivered a total of 33,240 medium-heavy and heavy trucks in the first six months of 1996, a 13 percent drop from 1995.
Last week Volvo announced a major cost-cutting drive and a change of top management at its truck division in the U.S., saying performance this year had been unsatisfactory and the unit had suffered substantial - but undisclosed - losses.
"A restructuring programme is under way but a significant loss is also anticipated in the second half," Gyll said.
Volvo Truck's managing director Karl-Erling Trogen told Reuters that losses in North America would continue.
Analysts were forecasting Volvo to post a full year pre-tax profit of between 5.4-6.8 billion crowns.
($1=6.608 Swedish Crown)