Swedish insurer Trygg-Hansa on Wednesday reported a sharp jump in earnings for the first half of the year, saying a thorough reorganisation of the group had started to pay off.
Trygg-Hansa's pre-tax profit increased to 1.52 billion crowns ($230.5 million), a 27 percent improvement on the 1.20 billion crowns posted in the corresponding period last year.
The increase was bolstered by a 29 percent jump in profits from the non-life insurance business, and by a sharply improved return on the group's asset portfolio.
Capital gains and unrealised changes in value in the portfolio improved to 1.19 billion crowns from 848 million in the same 1995 period.
Although a fall in direct yield on shares and bonds to 729 million crowns from 834 million offset some of the gains, the total return on capital improved to 1.82 billion crowns from 1.62 billion crowns.
"It is with great satisfaction that I note that the thorough process of change that Trygg-Hansa is going through has begun to have results," group CEO Lars Thunell said in the company's interim results statement.
Trygg-Hansa has implemented an efficiency drive that it says will cut costs in its claims department alone by 200 million crowns a year.
Total operating costs for the period declined to 582 million crowns from 684 million in the first half of 1995.
Chief Financial Officer Zaid Pedersen told Reuters he was particularly pleased by the improved performance from insurance operations.
"In the longer term, it's very important that the core business does well," he said.
The improvement in the return on the investment portfolio was primarily the result of a sharp fall in interest rates over the first half, a trend that had bolstered the value of the bond portfolio and fuelled a rise in share prices.
Although the positive development in this area would continue for the rest of the year, Pedersen said investors should not expect a similar leap in the second half.
"Some of these are one-off gains here influenced by market developments. You can't multiply this result by two for the year, that would be too good, I guess," he said.
-- Stockholm newsroom +46-8-700 1006 ($ = 6.595 Swedish Crowns)