Swedish industrial investment group Investor reported on Wednesday a giant leap in profits for the first half of the year as proceeds from the sale of listed truck group Scania boosted earnings fourfold.
"The first six months of 1996 was a favourable period for Investor. Most notably, the successful sale of Scania shares means that we can now show an even stronger balance sheet," Investor president Claes Dahlback said in a statement.
Investor's profit after financial items for the period came to 11.61 billion crowns, compared with a pro-forma figure excluding Scania of 2.10 billion for the first half of last year.
The Scania divestment brought in 12.4 billion crowns in the second quarter of the year, but the positive effects were in part offset by a cash injection of 2.48 billion crowns made to Saab Automobile.
Since the divestment of Scania, the main industrial operations held by Investor, the investment vehicle of the Wallenberg sphere, has been Saab Automobile, which it owns jointly with General Motors, and Saab AB which it owns outright.
Saab Automobile posted on Friday a loss of 428 million crowns for the first half of the year, blaming increasing costs and the adverse effects of the stronger crown.
Aviation and technology group Saab AB reported a modest profit after financial items of 32 million crowns for the first half of the year on sales of 3.74 billion crowns. Of this, financial items accounted for a positive 283 million crowns.
Also remaining in the Investor group is an investment portfolio that is the key to the Wallenberg empire's industrial power.
This includes capital stakes of 10 percent in drugs giant Astra, 45 percent of Scania, 16 percent of forestry group Stora and 27 percent of fellow investment group Incentive.
In most of these cases, Investor's share of the voting rights is larger than its capital holding.
The value of Investor's main holdings at June 30 was 52.59 billion crowns, representing a 13 percent increase in value over the first half of the year.
The group's net asset value at the end of the reporting period was 72.84 billion crowns, or 364 crowns per share. However, net asset value had fallen to 71.2 billion crowns or 356 crowns per share by August 16, Scania said.