Swedish commercial bank Nordbanken on Wednesday reported an 18 percent increase in profits for the first half of the year and the normalisation of credit losses that have plagued it for years.
The state-controlled high-street bank posted an operating profit of 3.8 billion crowns ($576 million) for the first half of the year, up from 3.21 billion crowns in the same 1995 period.
Credit losses fell to 260 million crowns from 661 million last year. Much of this improvement was due to the exploitation of a loan loss provision totalling 300 million crowns.
However, even without this provision, credit losses would have totalled no more than 0.49 percent of total lending, a level which signals that Nordbanken -- along with other Swedish banks -- has returned to normal loan loss levels of around 0.5 percent.
However, the improvement on the bottom line was by no means exclusively the result of lower credit losses, Nordbanken said.
A steady decline in market interest rates over the period had boosted profitability, it said.
Debt yields in Sweden have fallen hardest at the short end of the market, and the steepening yield curve has allowed banks to cover long lending with cheaper borrowing in short papers.
Lower rates had also led to strong gains in the bank's bond portfolio, Nordbanken said in a statement.
"The general downturn in rates influenced developments positively mainly through higher bond prices. Advantageous positioning (in the market) led to a strong improvement in the result from financial transactions," it said.
This improved to 632 million crowns in the first half of 1996, compared with 45 million crowns in the same period last year.
The bank also noted improvements on the cost side. Although personnel costs increased to 1.43 billion crowns from 1.38 billion last year, a fall in other operating costs meant a six percent decline in total expenses to 3.58 billion crowns.
Since the credit crash of the early 1990s which brought many Swedish banks to the finance ministry for help, the industry has recovered with a vengeance.
Nordbanken was virtually stripped of a massive portfolio of bad debt and non-performing loans in a government rescue package, and its highly profitable core operations have now come back into their own.
Nordbanken's profit after tax of 2.68 billion crowns for the first half means a return on equity of a solid 28 percent, and even discounting the result of financial transactions the return was 21 percent.
-- Stockholm newsroom, +46-8-700 1006 ($ = 6.595 Swedish Crowns)