First half profits from Dutch post and telecoms group Koninklijke PTT Nederland NV (Dutch PTT) are seen rising 10 percent when it reports on Friday, boosted by cost controls and growing mobile phone business, analysts said.
Analysts' forecasts range from 1.210 billion guilders ($725.2 million) to 1.236 billion net profit in the first half of 1996, up from 1.114 billion in the corresponding 1995 period. The interim dividend is seen climbing to 1.00 a share from 0.90 guilders.
"Strong growth at mobile telephony is really paying off," said Joost van Beek at Van Meer James Capel. "We've also seen cuts in workforce at PTT post and that's driving growth there."
Analysts said demand for digital GSM (Global System for Mobile Communications) mobile phones was being combined with aggressive marketing of low cost analogue offerings to produce strong results for 45-percent state-owned Dutch PTT.
"Mobile telephony has had a lot of investment put into it and earnings growth will be quite significant," said Van Beek.
Douglas Wight of Salomon Brothers in London is also looking for a strong performance from mobile, adding business telephony looked solid. "We've seen some pretty strong business revenues in the European telecoms sector in the past year or so and I think the business sector should be buoyant for KPN," he said.
"On the revenue side mobile will definitely be a big push for them and also business telephony, while on the cost side there are various policies in place to keep costs well under control," said Wight. Dutch PTT has consistently aimed to push down workforce numbers, particularly on the postal side.
Analysts expect growth from mobile and fixed line telephony to be partly offset by the continuing drain from the Unisource European telecoms joint venture Dutch PTT owns with Sweden's Telia, Swiss Telecom PTT and Spain's Telefonica.
Unisource earlier this year announced a net loss of 320 million guilders in 1995 - its third year of operations.
"There are still substantial losses at Unisource where the company is investing heavily," said Van Beek.
Steven Vrolijk, telecoms analyst at ING Barings, anticipates 1.220 billion guilders first half net profit from Dutch PTT and a 1.00 guilder per share interim dividend.
He is looking for volume growth in telephony as well as growth in the courier side of the firm's postal businesses although he sees overall postal growth as unspectacular. -- Keiron Henderson, Amsterdam Newsroom +31 20 504 5000 ($ = 1.668 Dutch Guilders)