Swedish forestry group MoDo AB said on Wednesday its main markets except newsprint had been weak in the first half, but the order intake for pulp, fine paper and paperboard had improved in the second quarter.
Reporting first-half profit after financial items down 36 percent to 1.66 billion crowns ($251.7 million) from 2.61 billion, MoDo said currency hedging had improved its result by 948 million crowns.
Analysts had expected a profit around 1.44 billion crowns, and MoDo's shares rose in Stockholm after the news, touching a peak of 188.00 crowns before trading up 4.0 at 185.00 crowns.
"The market for pulp, paper and paperboard during the first half of the year was influenced by the general economic slowdown and the current process of destocking in Europe," MoDo said in the results statement.
"However, the order intake for pulp and paper -- for which price increases have been announced -- as well as for paperboard, improved during the second quarter," it said.
Reporting first-half total sales down slightly to 10.22 billion crowns from 11.61 billion, MoDo said its total paper, paperboard and pulp deliveries fell 10 percent compared with the 1995 period to 1.3 million tonnes.
"Compared with the first quarter of 1996, second quarter delivery volumes were up by 88,000 tonnes," it said.
Although fine paper deliveries in western Europe fell nine percent in the first half with uncoated grades falling 11 percent, MoDo said orderbooks at its fine paper mills were now "back to normal" and second-quarter deliveries rose six percent compared with the first-quarter.
"The fine paper stocks held by distributors and customers are now estimated to be low," MoDo said, adding that fine paper prices had stabilised and it had announced price increases of some 10 percent to take effect in September.
MoDo said chemical pulp deliveries fell by five percent in the first half, although the order intake had recovered in recent months.
It made no comment on prospects for pulp prices but referred to a July price increase to $580 per tonne for softwood (long fibre) pulp.
Deliveries of wood-containing printing paper to western Europe fell, MoDo said, with newsprint down five percent, coated magazine paper (super-calendered) down by nine percent, and coated magazine paper down by 24 percent.
But it said newsprint prices were stable in the first half.
"Prices for the second half of the year are currently being negotiated," MoDo said, adding that its Holmen newsprint subsidiary had introduced some production restrictions to prevent stocks from building up.
MoDo's statement made no comment on future prospects, although a news conference was scheduled for 1230 GMT.
-- Stockholm newsroom +46 8 700 1006 ($ = 6.595 Swedish Crowns)