South Korea's Samsung Aerospace Industries returned to The Hague on Tuesday to discuss buying bankrupt planemaker Fokker, the Dutch Economics Ministry said Wednesday.
Samsung carried out takeover talks on two earlier occasions, one prior to the Dutch planemaker's bankruptcy on March 15 and one immediately after it. A large delegation showed up in The Hague on Tuesday to build on the groundwork of previous talks.
"The weight of the delegation is hard to assess, but it's safe to assume they didn't send just anyone," a spokesman said.
Samsung wanted the Dutch state to play a role in the rebirth of Fokker, he added.
"Relaunch talks are carried out by the court-appointed receivers. Only if interested parties want something from the Dutch state, they come and talk with us," the spokesman said.
He declined to comment on the negotiations, attended also by the Fokker receivers, but said Samsung was not the only company interested in acquiring Fokker's aircraft manufacturing unit.
"The minister said in July that there are still several candidates...it's hard to tell which of the negotiations is in the most advanced stage," he said.
The spokesman for the receivers, Ben Knueppe, declined to comment on what he called "interim reports".
"There are talks with many possibly interested parties...The world is bigger than Samsung," he said.
In July Russian's Aviatsionnaya Korporatsiya Yakovlev said it planned to take over Fokker. Other possible buyers included three Dutch businessmen who each tried to group investors.
The Fokker receivers are pressing hard to find a buyer for the bankrupt planemaker as its suppliers need to know whether they should dismantle their production lines for Fokker parts.
Fokker will make planes at least until April 1997 as part of a post-bankruptcy plan, but the supplies for these planes will be delivered in the next few months.
"If the suppliers do not get a green light, they will take down their production lines in September or October. A relaunch will then be very difficult," a source close to Fokker said.
In order to take the pressure off the talks, the receivers are studying ways to keep the plant open beyond April 1997.
In June Fokker accepted orders for seven aircraft, six new Fokker 70s for KLM Royal Dutch Airlines and one Fokker 50 for Formosa Airlines. These orders, alongside eight orders from before the bankruptcy, will keep Fokker airborne until April.
Asked why Fokker's life after death had been extended, one of the receivers said it was the best way of preserving assets.
The slimmed-down plant employs several hundred staff, markedly fewer than the thousands prior to the collapse.
The exodus of engineers, some of whom went to U.S. planemaker Boeing, was said to be a source of concern for Samsung as the South Korean firm is only interested in buying Fokker if it is able to complete development of the Fokker 130.
Fokker's profitable maintenance and services units have meanwhile been sold to Dutch technical engineering group Stork under the condition that it is prepared to sell it back to a possible buyer of the aircraft manufacturing base.
-- Lucas van Grinsven, Amsterdam newsroom +31 20 504 5000