Germany's banks, desperate to boost returns from their cost-laden retail businesses, are locked in an intensifying battle for market share but analysts say mergers are inevitable in the long run.
Returning home from foreign shopping sprees with bags full of profitable new investment bank subsidiaries and Anglo-Saxon notions of shareholder value, the banks have woken up to the need for a fundamental streamlining of their branch networks.
Moves to win customers by offering lower-cost telephone banking, putting branches in supermarkets and extending opening hours will help raise efficiency, analysts say.
But the measures will not solve the problem of overcrowding in a market teeming with 3,600 private, public and co-operative banks, they add. Even Deutsche Bank AG, Europe's largest bank, has a domestic market share of just five percent.
Only mergers can pave the way for branch closures and cost-savings on the scale needed to cope with an onslaught of competition after European monetary union, analysts argue.
"Banks are taking sensible steps to increase productivity in domestic retail networks but these moves alone will not enable them to reach the desired returns," said Konrad Becker, banking analyst at Merck, Finck in Frankfurt.
"I don't think banks will be able to avoid mergers. I wouldn't rule out that there will be just three major commercial banks by the year 2000 rather than five."
Merger speculation was fanned last month when Deutsche said it had amassed a 5.21 percent stake in Bayerische Vereinsbank AG, ostensibly because it was a sound investment.
Various scenarios emerged, with Deutsche seen teaming up with Bayernverein and Dresdner Bank AG, Germany's number two, seen joining forces with Munich-based Bayerische Hypotheken- und Wechsel-Bank AG.
Swiss and Dutch banks have also been cited as possible partners for German banks.
"After monetary union, banks will only be able to stay competitive if they increase in size to gain economies of scale," said Stefan Ermisch, analyst at Trinkaus & Burkhardt.
Banks provide no breakdown yet of earnings by division but Ermisch said the return on equity from their domestic branch networks was likely to be well below five percent after risk provisions and tax. "That is completely unsatisfactory."
Deutsche, Dresdner, Commerzbank AG, Vereinsbank and Hypo-Bank are already working flat-out to cut costs and make themselves more attractive to customers and shareholders.
Customers long used to inconvenient branch hours and a "take it or leave it" attitude from bank staff are being lured by new lower-cost direct banks, offering services like current account management or share dealing by telephone, pc or fax.
Banks are shifting to performance-related pay, merging branches, shedding staff through natural wastage and installing more automatic teller machines.
They are also centralising back office duties, concentrating investment advisers at larger branches, and allocating more staff to serving customers.
In addition, Deutsche said recently it would open branches in selected supermarkets from November to get closer to its customers. Dresdner will have 200 of its 1,200 branches open late from November when German shops start opening longer.
Of the top five banks, all but Dresdner have formed their own direct banking units. Dresdner is expected to follow suit.
Banks see telephone banking as a cheap way to handle bulk retail business for customers who want no advice.
But the new subsidiaries are still losing money because of heavy spending on advertising and other start-up costs and most do not expect to break even until 1999.
"I doubt that the market for direct banking will develop into a particularly lucrative one in the near future," said Christine Winkler, banking analyst at Hypo-Bank in Munich.
"The services attract young people but it's a different story with the broader population. Earnings potential may not be so great while costs and advertising expenditure are high."
Bank officials concede that the direct banks can never replace branch networks.
"I think direct banking will grow in importance but there's a limit to the number of customers who will use it," said Christian Jessen, one of three managers at comdirect, Commerzbank's direct banking unit formed last year.
"Customer contact with staff in branches will continue in future. Direct banks will always be an added sales avenue."
Banks see eight to 10 million potential customers for direct banking, or 10 to 12.5 percent of the population.
Thomas Holtrop, head of Deutsche's direct bank, Bank 24, said direct banks will force branches to become more service-oriented.
Bonn-based Bank 24 has won almost 40,000 customers since it was set up in September last year and aims for 100,000 by the end of 1996 and 500,000 by 2000.
Its current account fees are up to 30 percent lower than at branches and the discount for share and bond dealing charges is up to 70 percent.
Some 65 percent of Bank 24's customers come from savings banks, co-operative banks and state-owned Postbank AG. A further 15 percent came from rivals Dresdner and Commerzbank. Some 15 percent come from Deutsche.
Holtrop said "Yuppies" -- young upwardly mobile people -- and "Dinkies" -- couples with two incomes and no children -- make up the "highly interesting" lion's share of Bank 24's client base. Clients are aged 35 on average.
Bank 24's 300 staff, of whom 37 percent work part-time, are excluded from the industry-wide bank wage agreement. They earn less and have less holiday than their colleagues at Deutsche.
"We have broken taboos here," says Holtrop.