Romania needs to build up a large strategic coal reserve and import some 3.0 million tonnes of hard coal to prevent a repeat of last winter's energy crisis, a senior official said on Wednesday.
Coal reserves currently amount to 4.87 million tonnes, Industry Ministry general director Gheorghe Rancea told Reuters, some 600,000 tonnes less than anticipated under a programme to provide for energy needs in advance.
Rancea said a shortage of specialised railway carriages had hampered the ministry's attemtps to ensure a smooth flow of coal supplies to power plants.
"According to our schedule we should have had 5.34 million tonnes of lignite at the power plants today," Rancea said.
"But SNCFR (Romanian railway authority) has no money to repair its carriages and our mines build up stocks of coal," he said, adding that some 790,000 tonnes of lignite were already extracted and ready for shipment at mines across the country.
"However, we hope to store some 9.0 million tonnes of coal at the power plants by December, to be on the safe side during the coming winter," Rancea said.
Romania was plunged into an energy crisis last winter when cold weather settled in earlier than expected and triggered unprecedented power consumption.
A shortage of hard currency to import fuel as well as high coal and fuel oil consumption at power plants, forced the Renel RA electricity authority to drastically cut power supplies to most industries from January to March.
Average daily power plant coal consumption is 70,000 tonnes during summer and up to 140,000 in the cold winter months.
"Last winter, we had consumption peaks of 180,000 tonnes a day. On April 28, our coal stocks were nil," Rancea said.
Rancea said his ministry had asked the government to approve the import of some 3.0 million tonnes of hard coal, to supplement existing stocks and build up emergency reserves.
Forecasts indicate unusually cold weather will arrive in September, forcing power plants to up output and gobble more coal than normal, he said.
"So far, Renel recieved approval to purchase 1.0 million tonnes of hard coal," he said.
Ministry data showed Romania extracted 23 million tonnes lignite and 3.47 million tonnes hard coal since January. Ministry estimates put 1996 coal production at some 44 million tonnes, around last year's level.
Romania's coal production fell sharply after the December 1989 fall of communist rule. In 1992, output fell to a low of 28 million tonnes, against a peak of 61 million in 1989.
Annual domestic demand is around 45 million tonnes. About 75 percent of coal and lignite production comes from surface mines operated with bucket wheel excavators, conveyors, trucks and stackers. The remainder is deep-mined. -- Bucharest Newsroom 40-1 3120264