CS Holding, Switzerland's second biggest banking group, on Wednesday reported a 26 percent jump in net profit in first-half 1996 but this was lower than earnings growth by its Swiss rivals.
The company, parent to flagship bank Credit Suisse and U.S.-based investment banking group CS First Boston, said group net profit before minority interests grew to 941 million francs ($783 million) from 749 million a year earlier.
It said its reorganisation, including cutting 5,000 jobs, was expected to lead to a sustained improvement in performance in future and was cautiously optimistic for the full 1996 year.
"CS Holding expects the full-year results for 1996 to be better than those for 1995, although provisions for credit risks will remain high and the situation on the financial markets may affect the second-half performance," it said.
At midday, the group's registered shares had slipped by 1.25 francs from the previous 130 franc close in reaction to the figures.
Analysts said the results were below expectations and showed the need for a huge restructuring programme announced by CS last month. But some added that CS Holding could have greater potential than its rivals.
"I have the impression that costs are relatively higher at CS Holding than at the others," analyst Thomas Bieri at Zurich Cantonal Banks said.
One stock market dealer said the market was mainly disappointed that CS had made no announcement about selling its stakes in Elektrowatt or private bank Bank Leu. The results were also at the lower end of expectations, he added.
Return on equity rose to 10.5 percent from 9.0 and earnings per share to 4.40 francs from 3.74.
With the half-year reporting season over, analysts agreed that Swiss Bank Corp was the top choice for growth and profits after integrating investment banking arm SG Warburg and launching its own reorganisation in May.
"We have the three big Swiss banks as "hold" recommendations but SBC is the favourite if you have to be in that sector," said John Leonard at Salomon Bros.
CS Holding's net profit growth of 26 percent compared with 36 percent at Swiss Bank Corp (SBC) and 33 percent at the biggest Swiss bank group, Union Bank of Switzerland (UBS).
"The difference between CS Holding and the other two big banks underscores the need for restructuring," Zurich Cantonal Bank's Bieri said.
CS unveiled plans in July to tighten its mix of bank and financial activities into four core business areas under a new name, Credit Suisse Group, from January 1, 1997.
Some analysts said the quality of CS profits was already increasing, adding that the group had greater potential than rivals UBS and SBC because it was restructuring later.
Thomas Kalbermatten from UBS Global Research said it was positive that commission income, a steadier source of earnings than market trading, now made up 38 percent of all earnings, up from 36 percent in the same period last year.
"The quality of profits is improving in a way that has become general in the banking sector," he said.
"Compared to other Swiss banks, CS Holding has the greatest potential (savings and profit growth) because it is just starting on reorganisation," he said.
($1=1.2022 Swiss Franc)