Swedish insurers Skandia and Trygg-Hansa on Wednesday reported sharply higher earnings for the first half of the year as return on financial investments bolstered less impressive insurance profits.
Trygg-Hansa's pre-tax profit increased to 1.52 billion crowns ($230.5 million), a 27 percent improvement on the 1.20 billion crowns posted in the corresponding period last year.
The increase was bolstered by a 29 percent jump in profits from the non-life insurance business, and by a sharply improved return on the group's asset portfolio.
Capital gains and unrealised changes in value in the bond and share portfolio improved to 1.19 billion crowns from 848 million in the same 1995 period.
Trygg-Hansa has initiated a business process re-engineering programme that it says will cut costs in its claims department alone by 200 million crowns a year.
Total operating costs for the period declined to 582 million crowns from 684 million in the first half of 1995.
"It is with great satisfaction that I note that the thorough process of change that Trygg-Hansa is going through has begun to have results," group CEO Lars Thunell said in the company's interim results statement.
Although the positive trend in financial investments would continue for the rest of the year, chief financial officer Zaid Pedersen said shareholders should not expect a similar return in the second half.
"Some of these are one-off gains here influenced by market developments. You can't multiply this result by two for the year, that would be too good, I guess," he said.
Rival Skandia also posted a strong improvement in profits for the first half.
Skandia's pre-tax profit of 1.54 billion crowns ($233.5 million) for the period was a 64 percent jump on the 940 million reported for the first half of last year.
With the profit from non-life insurance virtually unchanged at 1.55 billion crowns, much of the improvement came from an increase to 811 million crowns in the profit from the life assurance business.
But, more importantly, profits from investment income showed a substantial increase on last year's levels.
Investment income from the non-life business came to 1.47 billion crowns, up from 641 million in the same time last year.
This, combined with a fall in joint group operating costs, meant a surge in the non-technical result to 1.08 billion crowns from 161 million crowns last year.
Premium income declined seven percent in the non-life business to 10.62 billion, but on the life side unit-linked insurance enjoyed a 37 percent gain in premiums to 15.01 billion crowns.
"Naturally, the strong result for our investment operations during the first half is gratifying. The steady growth of our unit-linked business is expected to continue during the rest of the year," Skandia CEO Bjorn Wolrath said in a statement.
Earlier on Wednesday, rival Trygg-Hansa posted a 27 percent increase in pre-tax profits to 1.52 billion crowns. This, too, was largely the result of improved investment income. ($ = 6.595 Swedish Crowns)