Investment by foreign oil firms in Ecuador will not be affected by the government decision to halt the operations of U.S. firm Maxus Energy Corp, Energy and Mines Minister Alfredo Adoum said Wednesday.
"This is going to reassure all the other companies because they know that now they are all covered by the same rules. No one can have privileges," he said.
The government announced late Tuesday that it was banning Maxus from continuing its operations in Ecuador until it reaches a joint-venture deal with state-owned Petroecuador. 
Maxus, which has been operating fields near the Colombian border for the past nine years, is the only one of the foreign companies producing Ecuadoran oil which does not have a production-sharing agreement with the government. It has been engaged in tough negotiations over new contract terms.
Adoum said the government has pressed Maxus several times to sign a contract but the firm, which is a unit of Argentina's largest energy concern YPF SA, has put off taking a decision.
"Maxus has been reluctant, giving 1,000 excuses," he said. 
Ecuadoran law requires foreign firms to grant the state a share equivalent to at least 12.5 percent of its output.
Insisting that "we are not going to let them rob us", Adoum said the Ecuadoran government will fight any potential court action by Maxus.
"Up to now, we have paid Maxus $800 million in terms of all the infrastructure installed to extract the oil .... Up to now Maxus has extracted 50 million barrels of oil which with the sale price makes more or less $600 million," said Adoum.
"Up to now, the Ecuadoran people has not had a taste of one single liter of oil extracted by Maxus," he said. 
While local Maxus officials refused to comment, sources in the Ministry of Defense told Reuters that military personnel were already guarding Maxus's sites.
Mark Miller, executive vice-president of Maxus, said in New York that the company hopes to have something to say about its problems with the government in the next couple of days.
(Corrects to clarify that the company does not yet know when problems will be resolved).
Maxus's Ecuadoran estimated reserves were 228 million barrels in 1992, ranking second only to Petroecuador. It began producing heavy oil in 1994 at a rate of 14,000 barrels a day. 
Among the other foreign oil companies operating in Ecuador are France's Elf Aquitaine, Repsol of Spain and ARCO (Atlantic Richfield Co ) of the United States.
Ecuador, which left the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries in 1992, produced 379,437 barrels of oil a day in 1995, up from 371,632 barrels a day the year before.
-- Quito Newsroom +5932 258-433