Kmart Corp. reported a second-quarter profit Wednesday after 13 straight quarters of disappointing results as cost-cutting and improvement at its Builders Square building supply stores offset sluggish sales.
The nation's second-largest retailer said it earned $34 million, or 7 cents a share, for the period ended July 31. It was the first quarter in more than three years that the retailer has not posted a loss or a drop in quarterly results.
During last year's second quarter, Kmart lost $54 million, or 12 cents a share, which included a loss of $76 million on the disposal of discontinued operations.
"We're seeing evidence that the turnaround is beginning to take hold," said Kmart spokesman Robert Burton. "It's too early to declare victory but it's not too early to say we're making progress."
Steep cuts in employment costs and the divestiture of businesses with heavy expenses, including the sale of 860 auto service centers to a unit of Penske Corp.,  helped lift earnings, industry analysts said.
Kmart has cut 30,000 workers over the last year. Some of those jobs were eliminated through the closing of about 220 stores in the last 18 months.
But the Troy, Mich.,-based discount store chain's sales remain soft. Total sales fell (Corrects from rose) 1.5 percent to $8.3 billion in the quarter, and comparable-store sales, or sales among stores open a year, rose just 2.2 percent at Kmart's discount stores in the United States, trailing rivals Wal-Mart Stores Inc. and Target, owned by Dayton Hudson Corp..
The results "are evidence management is moving in the right direction," said Richard Church at brokerage Smith Barney. "But you haven't seen top-line improvement. It's all coming from expense reductions."
Kmart's biggest challenge is winning back customers it lost to competitors such as Wal-Mart, analysts said. But this could take years as Kmart's new merchandise executives overhaul clothing offerings and new systems to better manage inventories kick in.
"At the end of the day, this is a company that needs to steal back customers and change its customer profile, and that's going to take some time," said Marc Kutik, director of high-yield research at NatWest Markets.
Kmart said sales of clothing and items such as small appliances and light bulbs were disappointing. But sales of lower-profit merchandise such as snack food, soap and paper towels was strong.
Some of the pressure on profits has stemmed from price competition from other discounters and large chain stores. While Kmart has whittled down costs by getting rid of high-expense businesses, it also has given up profit.
Last month, Kmart agreed to turn over the operation of the restaurants inside 1,850 Kmart stores to a joint venture it will form with Daka International Inc..
Kmart's Builders Square chain of building supply stores reported profits rose 111 percent to $19 million in the second quarter.
Builders Square remains on the auction block, and Kmart has had talks with potential buyers, although company spokesman Burton would not say if a deal was near.
Analysts said Kmart would rather wait to sell the troubled chain after profits recover further than accept a low bid.
Kmart stock rose 25 cents to $10.75 on the New York Stock Exchange.