High-tech venture capital powerhouse Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers said Wednesday it has created a $100 million fund to invest in start-up firms developing businesses based on the hot new Java technology for the World Wide Web.
Kleiner Perkins -- which since its 1972 founding has created a web of companies similar to Japan's networks of closely affiliated businesses -- named 10 major technology companies, including International Business Machines Corp., Compaq Computer Corp. ), and Netscape Communications Corp., as investors in the new fund. It said the Java Fund was closed to any new investment.
Kevin Compton, a Kleiner Perkins general partner who will be a fund manager, said the fund aims to improve small firms' access to corporate investors at a time when new product development has been shortened considerably by the frenzy over the Web.
"These companies have to live in Web weeks now, and instead of spending a year, or who knows how long, it takes to get corporate partners, they've got them on day one," he said.
Java developer Sun Microsystems Inc., itself a company launched with support from Kleiner Perkins, is the largest investor in the fund after Kleiner Perkins' institutional investors as a group.
"We could have just let the market take care of this because there's a lot of money in the market right now," Eric Schmidt, chief technology officer at Sun Microsystems, said in an interview.
But, he noted, the fund aims to build on the broad enthusiasm over Java, which has been licensed by a wide range of software developers ranging from Redmond, Wash.-based software giant Microsoft Corp. to the Taiwanese government.
"There's a certain benefit that's hard to quantify of having people with a common shared goal, with a clear name and a clear objective," investing together, he said.
Kleiner Perkins said its corporate partners in the fund include leaders in networking, personal computers, Internet software, database software and communications.
In addition to IBM, Compaq and Netscape, the corporate investors in the fund include Cisco Systems Inc., the cable TV companies Comcast Corp. and Tele-Communications Inc. , Japan's Itochu Corp, Oracle Corp., and US West Media Group, Kleiner Perkins said.
Schmidt said the fund, believed to be unique in its concentration on a particular technology, would compare to setting up a venture fund in the late 1970s to collectively finance early growth of the personal computer industry.
The fund is set up to run for 10 years, a relatively long time, and will aim to make an average investment of around $3 million, implying some 25 to 30 investments overall.
The first three Java Fund investments are start-up companies Active Software, Calico Technology and Marimba.
Active Software, founded in 1995, is a privately held company focused on extending information systems to the World Wide Web multimedia portion of the Internet. Calico Technology is working on software to enable sales representatives to quote and order products and services.
Palo Alto, Calif.-based Marimba, which was founded in February by four key members of the original Java development team, plans to provide technologies for developing and deploying network-aware Java applications.
Java was designed at Sun to be a programming language that makes it possible for software using it to run on nearly all the computer systems in the world, making it ideal for the global Internet network of computer networks.
Nearly 50 corporations have agreed to license the Java technology, and Sun Microsystems Chief Executive Scott McNealy estimated that 100 million computers and other devices will be able to use Java by the end of 1997.
Sun has set up a separate division, JavaSoft, to promote Java-based development to expand its reach into new areas, including the huge task of linking older computers to the Internet using Java.
Another area of innovation is expected to be in filtering and ultimately reducing data to make it more usable, along with improving group communications across networks used on the Internet and corporate networks known as intranets.
"What I will absolutely tell you that, over the course of the lifetime of this fund, there will be some set of investments that will be extraordinarily important, none of which any of us can identify right now," Schmidt said.