A battle for control of the largest thrift in Nebraska -- $6.6-billion-in-assets Commercial Federal Corp -- appeared to be over late Wednesday after the announcement of a $48.9-million transaction.
Commercial Federal said it has repurchased for that amount in cash and a warrant a large block of its common stock from CAI Corp, a Dallas-based investment firm. CAI's principals, who had won positions on Commercial Federal's board last year, sought the company's sale. They have now agreed to resign their board seats, Commercial Federal said.  
The deal will immediately boost Commercial Federal's earnings per share by five to six percent, the company said. But analysts said it could also punish Commercial Federal's stock price temporarily by removing some takeover speculation.
"You could see an initial dip tomorrow. The last of the takeover speculators could decide to blow out, but most of the people who bought this on takeover speculation have already given up," said Montgomery Securities analyst Caren Mayer.
In sum, the deal is a plus for Commercial Federal because it reduces the number of outstanding shares, boosts earnings per share and removes uncertainty, Mayer said.  
"It's a positive for CFC stock because it works like a share repurchase," Mayer said. "The negative is psychological because the investment community is no longer going to view this (Commercial Federal) as a takeover opportunity."
The shares being reacquired -- about 8.3 percent of Commercial Federal's outstanding stock -- were bought by CAI some time ago. Late last year, CAI won a proxy fight against management when shareholders elected two CAI executives to the Commercial Federal board and adopted a resolution seeking sale or merger of the company. Shares in Commercial Federal over the next seven months rose from the low 30s to nearly 40.  
Then on August 6, Commercial Federal said it had purchased a warrant from El Paso Electric Co that gave Commercial Federal 49.75-percent control over CAI. If Commercial Federal had exercised that warrant, it could have caused problems for CAI by forcing it to change its tax status, Mayer said.
Late Wednesday, Commercial Federal said CAI has agreed to sell back to Commercial Federal the 1.25 million shares at about $39 per share, a small premium over market.
In addition, CAI chief executive Robin Glackin and treasurer Steven Ellis have agreed to resign from the Commercial Federal board, the thrift holding company said.
Commercial Federal shares closed off 1/8 Wednesday at 38-1/4. CAI executives could not be reached for comment.