U.S. oil companies with interests in Ecuador privately expressed concern Wednesday about the implications of developments in Ecuador in the past two days.
Tuesday evening's move by Ecuador's energy and mines minister Alfredo Adoum to halt production by Maxus Energy Corp, a unit of Argentina's YPF SA, over a contract dispute was followed Wednesday by government-owned Petroecuador's announcement that it would revise all existing contracts with foreign oil companies.  
"It makes us feel very uncomfortable," said an executive at a U.S. oil company with interests in Ecuador. "It's very confused and there are just too many things going on there a week and a half after they've had a change of government."
The economically conservative administration of President Sixto Duran lost out to the populist, centre-left President Abdula Bucaram's Roldosista Party, which made free-spending promises during the campaign.
Following the Petroecuador move on Wednesday, the state company's union called for a ban on more foreign oil companies which it said operated inefficiently.  
"We think we've got a good agreement with the government there, but clearly it's a volatile situation," said another U.S. oil company official who didn't want to be named.
Maxus is the largest foreign equity oil producer in Ecuador, with average 1995 production of just under 30,000 barrels a day of heavy oil from its Block 16, compared with Petroecuador's 305,000 bpd.
Maxus is the only one of the foreign companies which has an agreement which doesn't include production sharing with  
Petroecuador. Maxus executive vice president Mark Miller said on Wednesday that his company's representatives were negotiating with Petroecuador and hoped for an amicable resolution.
Occidental Petroleum Corp is the second largest, operating Block 15 in the Oriente Basin near the border with Colombia. Its share of production was about 23,000 bpd last year.
Texas-based Oryx Energy is the third largest foreign company operator, with 12,400 bpd from its Block 7 in Oriente basin through a joint venture with Germany's Preussag Energie, CLAPSA, SIPETROL (both of Chile), and Petroequador.  
Other foreign oil companies with smaller interests include Elf Aquitaine, Tripetrol and City Investing.
Joint venture partners ARCO (60 percent) and Agip (40 percent) own the Villano field in the Oriente province, containing about 160 million barrels in recoverable reserves.
In June, the the joint venture agreed terms with Petroecuador to build a 105-mile (171 km) pipeline to connect Villano with the trans-Ecuadorian pipeline, flowing about 30,000 barrels a day to the trunk line initially, rising to 80,000 bpd. Completion is expected in 1999.
-- Tony McAuley, New York Energy Desk, +1 212 859 1620