Sun Communities Inc confirmed that it has made an unsolicited stock acquisition bid for Chateau Properties Inc and said it is willing to evaluate other forms of consideration, including cash.
Sun is offering 0.892 Sun common shares for each share of Chateau Properties common stock and each unit of Chateau's CP Limited Partnership. Based on Sun's closing price of $28 on Tuesday, the company's offer would be worth $25 for each of Sun's 14.887 million shares and operating partnership units, or a total of $372 million.  
An earlier bid for Chateau by Manufactured Home Communities offered $26 a share cash for each Sun share, or $387.4 million. Manufactured Home, controlled by investor Samuel Zell, also offered the alternative of 1.15 shares of its own common stock for each Chateau share, which would be worth $21.275, or $316 million, based upon Manufactured Home's closing stock price of 18-1/8 on Wednesday.
Sun chief financial officer Jeffrey Jorissen said in an inteview that his company's stock offer for Chateau is superior to Zell's stock offer and also to Zell's cash bid, because a cash transaction would be taxable.  
Jorissen said Sun's offer for Chateau would be accretive for both companies.
"To the extent cash were used, it would be more accretive than if stock were used," he said.
Sun would issue about 13 million new shares to complete the acquisition, Jorissen said. It also has an unused credit line of $75 million to help finance a cash transaction.
He said the Sun bid offers more opportunities for cost savings than either Manufactured Home or ROC Communities Inc can offer. Chateau agreed to merge with ROC prior to the Manufactured Home bid on Monday.
Jorissen said the fact that manufactured housing communities owned by both Chateau and Sun are concentrated heavily in Michigan and Florida would allow for significant management operations to be merged and would allow the company to dominate those markets.
"They fit together beautifully, whereas ROC is in 25 states and MHC is in 20 states, maybe more," Jorissen said.
He said Sun will wait for a response after Chateau's board meeting on Thursday to help it determine its next move.