With many equities still recovering from July's sell-off, one class of stocks, real estate investment trusts (REITs), has staged a tortoise-like turnaround as investors increasingly opt for slow and steady.
As a group, REITs sharply underperformed the market last year as investors poured cash into volatile technology stocks.
"When you are in a very hot bull market and you see things like technology stocks which are very immature and have very high-growth patterns, REITs are just not as attractive," said Catherine Creswell, real estate analyst at Alex. Brown & Sons.  
With investors playing defense, whether out of fear of a downturn or reluctance to ride out sideways volatility, real estate has emerged as a mutual fund industry bright spot.
According to Mutual Fund Trim Tabs, which tracks mutual fund flows, inflows to Fidelity Investments' $828 million Real Estate Portfolio amounted to $4 million in May, $27 million in June and $33 million in July.
The increases in July were especially noteworthy because "they came at a time when inflows to most funds dipped," said Carl Wittnebert, the publication's managing editor.  
Vanguard Group's recently launched Specialized/REIT Index Fund has also grown substantially, with assets jumping to $143.9 million from $120 million at the end of July and under $80 million at the end of June, Wittnebert said.
This in  a category which, according to data provided by Standard & Poor's, offered an 18.31 percent total return in 1995, less than half the 37.57 percent surge of the S&P 500.
Over the first seven months of 1996, however, REITs have risen 8.06 percent versus 5.23 percent for the S&P 500.  
"We divide REITs into eight categories and all eight of them are outperforming the market right now," said Ed Nicoski, technical analyst at Piper Jaffray. "They really started to come on in mid-June."
Utilities have traditionally served as a haven because of steady income streams and rich payouts. However, that industry is undergoing profound change and several companies have cut dividends as they brace for state-mandated competition.
In contrast, REIT yields have kept to their long-term trend of steady yields.  
"Over time, the average REIT yields have traded in a very narrow band, typically between six and nine percent," said Creswell. "In addition, you tend to get dividend growth of between five and seven percent."
Tax laws call for REITs to derive most of their income from real estate investments, be they debt or equity, and to distribute virtually all net taxable income as dividends. In return, REITs pay no income taxes at the corporate level.