Huntsman Corp, the nation's largest privately held chemicals company, expects to announce two acquisitions in the next 30 days, chief executive officer Jon Huntsman told Reuters in a telephone interview Wednesday.
One of the transactions, which are in the final stages of negotiations, calls for the purchase of a major polymers unit of a publicly held company, he said. The other acquisition will be a privately held packaging company.
Huntsman said both businesses to be acquired have annual sales of at least $100 million each.  
Huntsman, the patriarch of the family-owned business, declined to give other details of the anticipated acquisitions, citing confidentiality agreements.
His comments came one day after the company dropped its unsolicited $460 million bid for Rexene Corp, which had rejected the offer.
Huntsman also said he will fly to Europe on Saturday to negotiate several potential acquisitions there.
"We're in the middle of negotiations there for some very major European assets that could as much as double our European business," he said.  
The acquisitions are a key part of Huntsman's growth strategy, which calls for doubling 1995 revenues of $4.3 billion by the end of 2000. Much of that growth is expected to come from acquisitions.
The Salt Lake City-based firm dropped the bid for Rexene on Tuesday after the target rejected the offer in favor of its own internal growth plan. Huntsman had proposed buying Rexene for $15 per share and the assumption of $175 million in debt.
Huntsman said he was willing to pay $16 per share for Rexene, but Rexene adviser Schroder-Wertheim indicated that offer also would be refused.  
"We have several other major acquisitions going right now and I just didn't feel it was worth the time and interest to try to negotiate with someone who had no interest in really working out a fair and equitable deal for shareholders," he said.
In rejecting the Huntsman offer, Rexene said its internal growth plan would serve the best interest of shareholders.
Huntsman also said he had considered launching a tender offer for Rexene, but "it's a very small industry, in the sense of the numbers of players, and it's not particularly an industry that we would want to be disruptive, or cause any type of turmoil, in."  
Some takeover traders had expected Huntsman would launch a tender offer for Rexene even though the company has never pursued a hostile takeover.
Although the failure to win Rexene marked the second time in recent months that Huntsman did not win its target, the company's top executive said its acquisition course will not change. In April, Huntsman's bid for Sterling Chemicals Inc was rejected in favor of a management buyout.
"These things don't mean a thing to us....they're not even a blip on the scope," he said.
Huntsman has long been known for its history of successful acquisitions, including the 1994 purchase of Texaco Inc's chemicals business.
The 59-year-old patriarch spoke from his hotel room in San Diego, where eight of his nine children had gathered for an annual retreat that combines the family business with family vacation.