The expectation that President Clinton will approve the regulation of tobacco as a drug by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration will heap more weight on tobacco stocks, which are already blighted by lawsuits.
Industry analysts, reacting to the news that broke from Washington late Wednesday, said however that the stock market is more likely to take its cue more from another lawsuit expected to be turned over to an Indiana jury this week.
"I think the stocks probably won't react to this as much as it will to Rogers," said Ronald Morrow at Rodman & Renshaw, referring to Richard Rogers, the plaintiff in the case.  
Dean Witter analyst David Adelman agreed and said an injunction is very likely. "They (tobacco companies) have reasonably good grounds to prevail," he said.
Tobacco shares had been under pressure all day Wednesday after the industry's major companies were named in three more suits filed by state attorneys general seeking recovery of Medicaid funds used to treat smoking-related injuries.
On the New York Stock Exchange, shares of Philip Morris Cos Inc, the world's biggest cigarette maker, fell 3-7/8 to close at 87-5/8. RJR Nabisco Holdings Corp, parent company of R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Co, settled at 25-3/8, down 1-1/8.  
Loews Corp, owner of Lorillard Tobacco Co, lost 1-1/4 to close at 76-5/8, while UST Inc, parent of U.S. Tobacco Co, lost 7/8 to settle at 30-7/8.
Unfavorable news about tobacco - part and parcel of tobacco investment almost from the beginning - was once automatically assumed to be an opportunity to buy the share cheaper. These days, the tidal wave of lawsuits and government oversight has begun to rattle the investment community.
The most recent broadside came August 9, when a Florida jury awarded $750,000 to Grady Carter and his wife for damages they suffered as smokers.  
Although the sum was a drop in the bucket to a $45 billion-a-year industry, it represented only the second time an award was granted by a jury.
If that verdict is upheld on appeal, it would be the first time a tobacco company has been found liable for its product, something that has eluded attorneys trying to establish class-action suits against the industry.  
"Over the last two years, it has paid investors to buy (tobacco stocks) on the dips. It seems that, going forward, that's going to be harder to do," said Tom Carpenter, a managing director and chief economist at ASB Capital Management Inc in Washington, D.C.
"It's the lawsuits coming at you from all angles. It's the general sense that there's no long-term future for these stocks," Carpenter said, adding, "The declines are deeper and the rebounds are narrower than they were. I just think things are different than they were a year ago."
For traders, the key number is 85. That is the Philip Morris stock price considered by most traders to be the key level of "support" for tobacco stocks on the whole.
That price is the level from which Philip Morris emerged in 1993 on the way to a larger rally, and the price where the stock rested following a heavy sell-off linked to the mass settlement offer by Brooke Group Ltd's Liggett Group Inc last spring.
"There's no telling how investors will value tobacco stocks from here on in. It's certainly not an area where an investor can jump in," said Alan Ackerman, a Fahnestock & Co market strategist.
--C. Thompson  (212) 859-1725