Urban Outfitters Inc stock fell another two points Wednesday to 19, continuing a two-day slide that began when the high-flying retailer failed to beat Wall Street forecasts of its second-quarter earnings.
"The expectation was that the company would exceed expectation," said J.C. Bradford analyst Eliot Laurence.
Laurence, who cut his rating on the stock to buy from strong buy Tuesday, said the decline in Urban Outfitters' share price reflected unfavorable comparisons with the performances of other youth-oriented retailers.  
"People were looking at other companies in the industry - such as Gadzooks, Buckle and Pacific Sunwear - that serve the same kinds of young customers and had reported better-than-expected earnings earlier in the week and last week," he said.
The analyst was referring to Gadzooks Inc, Buckle Inc and Pacific Sunwear of California Inc.
By late afternoon, Urban Outfitters shares had regained some ground lost earlier in the session and were trading at 20-5/8, down 3/4.
Still, securities analysts, including Laurence, said they saw nothing wrong with the company's operating fundamentals.  
"I don't know what the panic is about," said Urban Outfitters Chief Executive Richard Hayne, pointing out that net sales rose 20 percent in the fiscal second quarter.
On Tuesday, the company reported net income of $0.16 per share for the quarter ended July 31, a figure in line with Wall Street's expectations. In the year-ago second quarter, the company reported earnings of $0.13 per share.
However, the company cautioned that its gross profit margins at its Wholesale Company were down during the second quarter when compared to the 1995 period. It did not break out profit margin figures for the Wholesale unit.  
The company said the lower wholesale margins in the business reflected an increase in sales of lower margin products compared with those with higher returns.
Overall gross and operating profit margins rose slightly. Gross margins in the latest quarter rose to 51.3 percent, up from 50.5 percent a year ago, for example.
The company also said some product shipments had been delayed until the third quarter.
In a telephone interview, Hayne said some shipments the company had planned for July had slid into August. "So they'll be shipped in the third quarter," he said. "It's a timing issue."
Laurence said he would renew his aggressive rating on the stock if it fell as low as 17 or 18.
-- New York newsdesk, 212-859-1700