Engineers are investigating why an important wire was removed from a key cooling system of the Maine Yankee nuclear power plant, officials said Wednesday.
The 910-megawatt capacity plant is 38 percent owned by Central Maine Power Co, 20 percent each by New England Electric System and Northeast Utilities, and 22 percent by other New England utilities.  
Officials shut down the plant in Wiscasset, Maine on Sunday after discovering that 15 feet of wire was missing from a circuit used to automatically activate a pump in the emergency core cooling system.
The wire could have been removed by mistake during an earlier modification of the 24-year-old plant and not detected until testing procedures were updated this year, said Bill Olson, an Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) resident inspector.  
Maine Yankee spokeswoman Leann Diehl said the wire was supposed to be in a panel in the facility's control room, which is staffed by plant operators 24 hours a day and has a constant security guard.
Officials said the pump could still have been activated manually in the event of an accident. The cooling system is designed to prevent the reactor core from melting down in the event of problems in the main coolant system.  
It was unclear when Maine Yankee would be restarted, officials said. The plant was in the process of restarting from an earlier repair-related shutdown when the wire problem was discovered.
Maine Yankee has been the focus of extensive NRC scrutiny since late last year when allegations surfaced that engineers improperly manipulated a computer code used to test the emergency core cooling system in the late 1980s.  
The plant had been limited to operating at 90 percent capacity while tests with a new computer code are evaluated. NRC investigators are also probing the if the 1980 tests involved criminal wrongdoing.
Maine Yankee has denied its engineers acted improperly.
The plant has had a difficult summer. It was shut down July 19 after engineers discovered a potential design problem in the containment cooling system. Design problems were later found in another key control system.  
The NRC this year ordered U.S. nuclear plants to modify their testing procedures for emergency core cooling systems so that pumps in the system were tested seperately rather than simultaneously.
--Boston bureau, 617-367-4106