Raleigh Capital Associates L.P. said Wednesday it opposed a debt restructuring by Arvida/JMB Partners L.P. involving a proposed $160 million loan from Starwood Capital Group L.P.
Instead, the Jericho, N.Y.,-based firm said it offered to obtain comparable financing at better terms or make the loan itself to the Boca Raton, Fla., real estate developer.
After that, Arvida/JMB unitholders may choose to accept a cash out of $500 a unit, less any amount distributed as a result of the borrowing, the firm said in a filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission.  
"We can obtain financing at more favorable terms" said Michael Ashner, president of Raleigh GP Corp, a general partner of Raleigh Capital, in a telephone interview.
Gary Nickele, legal counsel of Arvida/JMB's based in Chicago, said he had not seen the proposal and had no immediate comment.
Raleigh currently holds a 19.7 percent stake or 79,701 units in Arvida/JMB, which develops real estate in south Florida. It obtained the bulk of the stake in a $461 a unit tender offer that expired August 1. It offered to buy a 45 percent stake or up to 180,000 units and was joined in the bid by affiliates of investors Carl Icahn and Leon Black.  
In the SEC filing, Raleigh said it presented its "strenuous objection" to terms of the Starwood financing in a meeting with Arvida/JMB officials on August 15. Starwood is a diversified real estate investment firm based in Greenwich, Conn., that owns a 18.6 percent stake in Starwood Lodging Trust, according to a Starwood spokesman.
Under the financing, BSS Capital II, L.L.C., an affiliate of Starwood Capital, would provide the loan, proceeds of which will be used to retire Arvida/JMB's existing debt and make a payout to unitholders of approximately $350 a unit.  
"In our view, the proposed loan terms are excessive relative to present market pricing for this type of facility," Raleigh said. It then offered its best efforts to obtain "superior financing proposals" to benefit Arvida/JMB and its unitholders.
It also said that to ensure that Arvida/JMB does not risk being worse off by rejecting the Starwood proposal should Raleigh fail to get better financing, Raleigh itself will provide "substantially identical financing" to the Starwood proposal.
Arvida/JMB, in a response to the alternate financing offer, said on August 19 that although no agreement had been reached on the Starwood financing, it had agreed not to pursue or negotiate any other offers for a specified period of time.
In July, Arvida/JMB said it had agreed to provide confidential information to two other suitors which were weighing possible bids for stakes in the firm.
---Gene Ramos, 202-898-8399