Hit by a government probe and with its share price near a three-year low, United American Healthcare Corp said its troubled Tennessee operations were profitable and could grow if state regulators would cooperate.
"Things are operating in an absolutely 100 percent normal manner (in Tennessee) and adding significantly to the bottom line," said chief executive Dr. Julius Combs in an interview with Reuters last week.  
"The only thing we're hoping to be able to project soon will be commercial enrollment. We think there's a significant market that is available in Tennessee," Combs said.
Detroit-based United American, which went public in 1991, has an unusual specialty in Medicaid markets. It manages four healthcare plans with 235,000 enrollees. Three years ago, Forbes magazine named it one of the best small U.S. companies.
It remains one of few African-American controlled companies on the New York Stock Exchange.
However, United American has problems going deeper than a broad slump in healthcare stocks, analysts said.  
State and federal authorities last year launched an investigation of marketing practices by United American affiliates in Tennessee that led to two fraud convictions.
A Tennessee Bureau of Investigation spokesman declined to comment on whether that investigation was continuing.
Combs said he did not know the probe's status, either.
The company lost $0.13 per share in the third quarter ended March 31 on revenue of $27.7 million, compared with a $0.33 per share profit on revenue of $17.7 million in the year-earlier quarter.  
The company is comfortable with analysts' forecasts of fiscal 1996 results ranging from a $0.04 per share loss to a $0.07 per share profit, Combs said.
In fiscal 1995, United American posted a profit of $1.01 per share on revenue of $68.5 million.
The third-quarter 1996 loss reflected losses by affiliates, a decrease in Tennessee HMO enrollments and "the costs of defending the company in ongoing litigation," it said.  
United American continues to fight two lawsuits filed late last year by shareholders alleging false and misleading statements. Combs said legal costs have been "substantial."
United American's core business, with 45 percent of its revenue, is a Detroit-area HMO. Smaller businesses are located in Cleveland, New York City and Maryland.
About 23 percent of revenue comes from managing Omnicare-TN, a Tennessee preferred provider organization that holds the company's biggest promise and its biggest problems, analysts said.  
Combs said state regulators reviewed the company's books last month but put no timetable on the months-old HMO license review process.
United American president Ronald Dobbins said, "All of our discussions with them have indicated that there is no reason why the license will not be approved."
--Chicago newsroom, 312 408-8787