Hoechst AG 's world fibers business said Wednesday it expects its sales to rise to over $7 billion in 1996 compared to $6.6 billion last year.
"We had sales of $6.6 billion in 1995 and expect to do in excess of $7 billion in '96," the division's president, William Harris, told a news conference here.  
Hoechst's fiber business had sales of $3.4 billion in the first half of this year.
Harris said Hoechst's world fibers business has changed its name to Trevira from Hoechst's Fibers Worldwide.
"The umbrella name Trevira will not refer to any legal entity at this point. It will simply be the way we refer publicly to the $6.6 billion Hoechst business that includes fibers, resins, films and intermediates," Harris said.
Trevira is a Hoechst polyester trademark.  
In response to a question, Harris said Hoechst does not have any current plans to spin off its world fibers business from the rest of the company.
"At this point there are no plans for the fibers business to be a separate legal entity," he said.
Harris said the overall polyethylene terephthalate (PET) packaging resins business is in a temporary slump that will probably continue into 1997 due to overcapacity.
"However, we are still forecasting double digit growth for PET packaging resins for the next decade.  And we are not curtailing our plans for expansion in PET," Harris said.  
Last year the division said it announced plans to triple its PET resins business to 1.4 million metric tons per year by the year 2000.
Regarding its other businesses, Harris said the division's North American textile polyester filament business' sales are expected to rise about 10 percent above last year.
The business had sales of about $1.3 billion in 1995.
Harris said production at Hoechst's technical polyester joint venture with Reliance Industries Ltd will start in 1998.
Harris also said the company changed its brand name for acetate filament, which is used for women's designer fashions and linings, to Celanese acetate.
The company previously used the brand name Celebrate in its ads and promotions.
"The Celebrate name, however catchy, does not work globally.  We hope to achieve consistency in our worldwide trademarks," Harris said.