British Gas shares climbed three percent on Wednesday after industry watchdog Ofgas softened its stance in a crucial review of the utility's pipeline operating unit TransCo.
But while investors welcomed the new proposals, British Gas said it had hoped for bigger concessions and added it would try to wring further compromises out of regulator Clair Spottiswoode before deciding whether to accept Ofgas' review.
The watchdog said it wanted TransCo, which is British Gas's biggest earner, to slice 20 percent off its charges in the year from April 1997. It had initially proposed a 20 to 28 percent price cut in May.
But Ofgas's main concession was in the price cuts for the four years to 2001, saying that charges should drop by an annual 2.5 percent rather than five as proposed three months ago.
The final proposals would lead to a cut in the average British household gas bill of almost 30 pounds ($45) in 1997, rising to over 50 pounds in 2001.
Shares in British Gas gained 6-1/2 pence to close at 204-1/2 on the milder proposals.
They had collapsed in May, losing 25 percent of their value in the two weeks after Spottiswoode relaesed her harsh initial proposals.
Though she has now made some concessions, the final review is still tough overall and will probably lead to a big dividend cut next year, analysts said.
British Gas stuck to its earlier prediction that lower charges by TransCo to gas suppliers will mean that up to half of the unit's 20,000 jobs will go.
The utility said it was disappointed with the review and wanted further talks.
"We have been discouraged by the very few concessions that have been made by the regulator," Philip Rogerson, British Gas deputy chairman, told Reuters.
"We have up until October 7 for further discussions and we shall be looking to use that time constructively... We are still hoping Ofgas will amend its proposals."
But Spottiswoode said her proposals were final and added that only details were negotiable.
"I wouldn't go any further without taking it to the Mergers and Monopolies Commission," she told Reuters.
The MMC Britain's senior competition authority.
Spottiswoode said her compromises followed new investment data supplied by British Gas in the last couple of months.
Another reason for a more relaxed regime was that Ofgas wanted to prevent accusations that it aimed to mend any false generosity in the past by being extra harsh now.
"We actually got a very good compromise for both shareholders and customers," Spottiswoode told a news conference.
But Ofgas has to refer the matter to the MMC if British Gas rejects the latest proposals.
Most investors dread this as it will prolong the uncertainty surrounding the firm as it plans its demerger into TransCo and its gas trading arm, scheduled to take place early in 1997.
But some analysts said British Gas has little to lose if the TransCo review is vetted by the MMC.
"I advise them to reject. It is worth a try," said Daniel Martin, analyst at brokers Barclays de Zoete Wedd.