Class B shares of Bombardier Inc rose 20 cents to reach 19.35 in brisk trading on the Toronto Stock Exchange on Wednesday morning after it forecast 30 to 35 orders for its Regional Jet in its third quarter.
On Tuesday evening, a Bombardier spokesman told Reuters that Bombardier is confident it will get the firm orders.
"What we expect is that by the end of the next quarter we are going to fill our order backlog for next year. For that we require a good number of orders between now and the end of October. I would say between 30 and 35 would be very satisfying," spokesman Michel Lord said in an interview.  
Analysts said Wednesday that the rally in Bombardier's Class B shares was related to Beaudoin's forecast, which was an unusual statement because Bombardier is traditionally loathe to make such specific forecasts.
"That was the most exciting piece of news that they gave us yesterday. This company doesn't say things like that unless it feels very comfortable in saying it," said analyst Jon Reider, of Richardson Greenshields.
"There is no question that any movement in the stock today I think is based on that," he said.
Bombardier's stock has rallied over the last 11 trading days, recovering ground lost earlier on concerns that it had not announced new orders for the Regional Jet.
"The one thing that had led to weakness or concern in the stock price was the fact that there was a weak order book developing for the Regional Jet," said Reider.
That would almost double the current order backlog of 40 for the 50-seat jet. Montreal-based Bombardier is producing the plane at a rate of five each month.
Lord was confirming a forecast made by Chief Executive Laurent Beaudoin in a telephone conference call with analysts late Tuesday afternoon.
In the conference call, Beaudoin said that he expected Bombardier to announce in the third quarter ended Oct. 31 firm orders for the Regional Jet that would fill production output to Jan. 31, 1998.  Lord said most of the new orders are likely to come from North American airlines.
-- Reuters Montreal bureau (514) 985-2434