A South African parliamentary committee has found there was insufficient evidence to prove that private banks colluded when they independently raised their interest rates by one percentage point on May 17.
But this did not rule out possible collusion, the committee said, adding there was an urgent need to restructure the Competition Board and set up an effective competition policy.
The parliamentary trade and industry committee held hearings in Pretoria in July into the alleged collusion and released its report on Wednesday.
The four major commercial banks - Standard Bank Corp, First National Bank, Amalgamated Banks of South Africa Ltd and Nedcor Ltd - raised their interest rates within an hour of each other on May 17.
Competition Board chairman Pierre Brooks said he suspected the banks had colluded.
The committee heard submissions from a wide range of organisations, including the Council of South African Banks (Cosab), which said it thought the banks were innocent.
"The case for possible collusion arises from a series of meetings and actions during May 15 to 17 associated with the rise in interest rates by commercial banks," the committee said.
"Most of the evidence presented by the banks stated that it was expected that the other banks would follow the Standard Bank lead. But it seems reasonable to infer that Standard Bank would not have risked raising their rates unless it was certain that the other banks would follow," it added.
The committee said it accepted that "conditions in the capital markets were causing difficulties for the banks.
"What is more difficult to understand is why they all had to raise their rates by the same amount at the same time, given that their cost structures are different."
The committee said it was also unusual that the banks increased their rates in the absence of a rate rise by the Reserve Bank.
The four main banks dominated the market and the committee heard allegations "that there is in fact a state of oligopoly in the banking sector."
The Competition Board, which aims to protect consumers, said there were "insufficient grounds to warrant ... a charge of collusion".
But the committee said the board did not have the capacity to launch a fullscale investigation and this highlighted "the urgency of new legislation on competition policy."
-- Parliamentary office +27 21 403-2502