Romania needs to build up a large strategic coal reserve and import some 3.0 million tonnes of hard coal to prevent a repeat of last winter's energy crisis, a senior official said on Wednesday.
Coal reserves currently stand at 4.87 million tonnes, Industry Ministry general director Gheorghe Rancea told Reuters, some 600,000 tonnes less than anticipated under a programme to provide for energy needs in advance.
Rancea said a shortage of rail wagons had hampered the ministry's attempts to ensure a smooth flow of coal supplies to power plants.
"According to our schedule we should have had 5.34 million tonnes of lignite at the power plants today," Rancea said.
"But SNCFR (the Romanian railway authority) has no money to repair its carriages and our mines build up stocks of coal," he said. Some 790,000 tonnes of lignite had already mined and were ready for shipment.
"However, we hope to store some 9.0 million tonnes of coal at the power plants by December, to be on the safe side during the coming winter," Rancea said.
Romania was plunged into an energy crisis last winter when cold weather arrived earlier than expected and triggered unprecedented power consumption.
A shortage of hard currency to import fuel as well as high coal and fuel oil consumption at power plants forced the Renel RA electricity authority to drastically cut power supplies to most industries from January to March.
Average daily power plant coal consumption is 70,000 tonnes in summer and up to 140,000 in winter.
"Last winter, we had consumption peaks of 180,000 tonnes a day. On April 28, our coal stocks were nil," Rancea said.
Rancea said his ministry had asked the government to approve the import of some 3.0 million tonnes of hard coal, to supplement existing stocks and build up emergency reserves.
Forecasts indicate unusually cold weather will arrive in September, forcing power plants to raise output and consume more coal than normal, he added.
"So far, Renel received approval to purchase 1.0 million tonnes of hard coal," he said.
Ministry data show Romania has mined 23 million tonnes of lignite and 3.47 million tonnes of hard coal since January. Ministry estimates put 1996 coal production at some 44 million tonnes, around last year's level.
Romanian coal production fell sharply after the end of communist rule in December 1989. In 1992, output fell to a low of 28 million tonnes, against a peak of 61 million in 1989.
Annual domestic demand is around 45 million tonnes. About 75 percent of coal and lignite production comes from surface mines and the rest is deep-mined. -- Bucharest Newsroom 40-1 3120264