A Bolivian folk tale tells how the Spaniards dug so much silver from Cerro Rico mountain during their three-century-long rule that they could have built a bridge made of the metal back to Europe.
It will never be known exactly how much silver the Spanish extracted from Cerro Rico but now a $180-million government plan to mine 266 million ounces in 23 years has sparked controversy.
Its backers say the operation would bring vital funds into the impoverished Andean plateau in southern Bolivia.  
The 100,000 people who live there today are among the poorest of Bolivia's poor.
The mountain currently only ekes out its silver to poor miners who have riddled it with a honeycomb of makeshift tunnels, often working naked in dangerous conditions.
Jamie Guzmn, an academic advising the state-owned Corporacin Minera de Bolivia (Comibol), said recently in a speech to the private Mining Club that mining Cerro Rico could put Bolivia back among the world's top six silver producers.  
"We are now talking objectively of a great potential whose exploitation would put Bolivia back into the top rank internationally," Guzmn said.
He said Cerro Rico's historical and cultural significance has led the government to rule out the possibility of mining the mountain with an open pit and that it hopes to reach a prompt agreement with Potos's civic committee.
The government wants to call an international tender by year-end to find a joint-venture partner to develop the project for Comibol.  
Defined a year ago on the basis of a 1989 United Nations study, the project would grant a 25-year contract, covering two years of study and development and 23 years of full operation.
The mine would be built at an altitude of 13,000 feet (4,400 meters) above sea level, near the top of the 15,700-feet (4,750 meter) high mountain.
While the point of the mountain's cone contains reserves of 800 million tonnes of ore, mining would concentrate on an interior section of 54 million tonnes of ore graded at an average 182 grams a tonne.  
The mine would produce 11.6 million ounces of silver a year and 266 million ounces of silver over 23 years, in the form of 98-percent pure bullion. This would almost double total Bolivian silver output, 13.7 million ounces in 1995.
Guzmn said that the only solution to the problem of mining Cerro Rico while preserving its shape is to fill in excavations immediately after digging. This could be done by either feeding the mine's tailings back into the cavities or using cement, or a combination of the two.  
He said the project would require investments of about $180 million over its 25 years. All the capital would be provided by the foreign partner.
The Cerro Rico mine would provide direct employment for 450 people, and indirectly create another 2,000 jobs.
While local objections persist, the president of Potos's civic committee appeared to move towards compromise last week when he said the city would like a bigger slice of the taxes to be levied on the new mine.
-- La Paz Newsroom +5912 39-1366