The oil installations of U.S. firm Maxus Energy Corp  in Ecuador are operating normally and have not been occupied by the army, Nells Leon, president of Maxus' owner, YPF SA, said Wednesday.
But Nells Leon told Reuters that talks to end a ban on Maxus' operations announced by the Ecuadoran government may "not be short".  
"Our area in Ecuador is producing normally and has not been taken by the army," Leon said, denying reports that the armed forces had occupied the company's block number 16.
With respect to declarations in the United States by Maxus' executive Vice-President Mark Miller that the company's difficulties with the government should be cleared up in two days, Leon said: "In the next two days we are going to set the framework under which the terms of the negotiation will be carried out."
He said it was difficult to say how long the negotiation would take: "I can't say .... I expect it will not be short."  
Nells Leon said: "We have a contract signed by the authorities under Ecuadoran law .... If the government proposes a change we will study it."
Asked whether he felt the government in Quito was changing the rules under which the company was operating in Ecuador, Nells Leon said: "I did not say that they are changing the rules."
He said "The government has asked for the contract to be renegotiated .... so that is what our regional manager in Quito is doing together with our partner from Petroecuador."
Ecuador's government announced late Tuesday that it was banning Maxus from continuing its operations in Ecuador until it reaches a joint-venture deal with state-owned Petroecuador.
Maxus's Ecuadoran estimated reserves were 228 million barrels in 1992, ranking second only to Petroecuador. It began producing heavy oil in 1994 at a rate of 14,000 barrels a day.
Among the other foreign oil companies operating in Ecuador are France's Elf Aquitaine, Repsol of Spain and ARCO (Atlantic Richfield Co ) of the United States.
-- Jason Webb, Buenos Aires Newsroom +541 318-0655