Moody's Investor Service said on Thursday it continued to be concerned by the New Zealand government's aggressive financial management of the Electricity Corp of New Zealand (Electricorp) and the high dividend payout ratio it is forcing Electricorp to pay.  
"Of ongoing concern, however, is the continued aggressive financial management of ECNZ by the shareholder," Moody's said in a statement confirming ECNZ's Aa3 long term debt rating.
"The government will likely use a high dividend payout ratio and special one-off dividend payments to maintain the debt/total capitalisation ratio at approximately 40 percent (and) all moneys in excess will be dividended out," Moody's said.
"This policy could prevent equity growth and will result in the maintainance of low retained cash flow relative to total debt," it said.  
Moody's carried out a review of ECNZ's long term ratings after the government said it intended to split ECNZ into two competing state-owned enterprises.
"The government will likely receive (a) future special dividend from the expected positive revaluation of ECNZ's assets in 1996," Moody's said.
"The (high dividend payout) policy could also allow the payment of cash dividends from the proceeds of debt which has been raised on the basis of a positive revaluation of ECNZ's assets," Moody's said.  
Moody's said ECNZ's market share was cut to about 70 percent from 100 percent by the government-enforced split and that it faced some increase in business risk because of this lower share and increased competition.
"But this risk will remain moderate, since the company will continue to be New Zealand's largest and lowest cost electric power generator for the foreseeable future," the agency said.
"In addition ECNZ's plan to cut its debt burden through an insubstance defeassance and its ability to increase margins through price hikes as new Independent Power Producers (IPP) enter the market should reduce its financial risk," it said.  
"Moody's belives its ratings are supported by its strategic importance to the New Zealand government."
-- Sydney Newsroom 61-2 373-1800