North Flinders Mines Ltd directors on Wednesday recommended shareholders accept a takeover offer from Normandy Mining Ltd, subject to the A$4 billion Normandy group merger gaining court approval.
In North Flinders' formal Part B response, a committee of directors said it considered the Normandy offers to be fair and reasonable, despite conceding earnings per share and dividends may be reduced within the Normandy structure.
The North Flinders directors said Normandy had forecast earnings per Normandy share would rise to 9.7 cents by 1998, equating to 41.23 cents per North Flinders share.  
"Whilst in 1995/96 North Flinders earnings per share was 46.8 cents, it is expected that North Flinders earnings per share (and hence dividends) may diminish in future years as higher cost underground ore has to be mined to maintain production levels and an active regional exploration program is continued," the directors said.
In the longer term, dividends may become more difficult to maintain due to increasing capital demands to maintain production, together with an extensive exploration effort.  
Normandy last week won shareholder approval for a merger with Posgold Ltd and Gold Mines of Kalgoorlie Ltd and will seek court approval in Adelaide on Thursday.
It previously sought to include North Flinders in its original merger proposal but later launched a takeover bid, offering 4.25 Normandy shares for each North Flinders share.
North Flinders' ability to meet these challenges and optimise shareholder benefits from the Tanami region should be enhanced via the financial strength of the merged Normandy.
The committee said while acceptance of the Normandy offer would reduce North Flinders' shareholders exposure to a pure gold focus, it offered an exposure to a large world class gold producer with potential for domestic and offshore growth.
Depending on the acceptance level of the offer by North Flinders shareholders, trading activity in the company could be reduced with diminished interest by institutional investors and broking firms, they said.