If China's economy continues its rapid growth, the mainland will replace Taiwan as the biggest market for Taiwan food giant President Enterprises, the head of its first joint venture in China said on Wednesday.
"If the mainland's development is normal...its politics are stable with no chaos, and the economy grows at nine-ten percent a year, our turnover in China will surpass that in Taiwan," said Tseng Wen-liang, general manager of Shanghai President Enterprises Livestock Food Company.
Tseng's venture, which produces feedgrain, was set up on July 1, 1992, with investment of $14 million. Its local Shanghai partner holds 11.5 percent, Japan's Mitsubishi Corp five percent, and President the balance.
Since then, President has become one of Taiwan's biggest investors in China, with $200 million invested in 15 companies producing biscuits, instant noodles, drinks and other food and industrial products, most sold to the Chinese market.
The massive sums Taiwan companies have poured into political rival China has recently begun raising questions in Taipei.
Last Wednesday Taiwan President Lee Teng-hui said the island needed to avoid over-dependency on investment in the mainland.
Two days later the giant Formosa Plastics Group said it was halting a $3-billion power plant project in China "to comply with government policy".
But Tseng said President was in China for the long haul.
"China welcomes our investments, the more the better," he said in an interview, adding that President was moving the head office of its China operations from Taiwan to Shanghai.
China says some 30,000 Taiwanese businessmen have poured more than $20 billion into China since the late 1980s, attracted by its cheap labour, abundant raw materials and access to the world's fastest growing market.
"We are a long-term investor and our investments are large. Some are profitable and some are just starting and not yet profitable," Tseng said. "We are not like those small investors who want a profit in one or two years."
On the wall of his office hangs a picture of China Communist Party chief Jiang Zemin meeting President's president Kao Ching-yuan in Beijing in 1993.
Tseng said his operations had not been affected by the sometimes erratic relations between Taipei and Beijing. "We have confidence and have not slowed the pace of our expansion."
Prior to Taiwan's first direct presidential election in March, China conducted large-scale military exercises in the Taiwan Straits that included missile tests.
The exercises were aimed at deterring Taiwan from seeking independence. Beijing regards Taiwan as a breakaway province. Both sides say they want unification but on different terms.
"If Taiwan-China relations are blocked, that is very bad for China," Tseng said. "The more economic exchanges (there) are, the better."
Tseng's plant aims to produce 90,000 tonnes of feedgrain in 1996, up from 60,000 in 1993 and rising to 120,000 in 2000, mostly for sale to farmers in the Shanghai area.
His main headaches have been how to get rid of excess workers and the erratic price of corn, his principal raw material, which reached a peak of 18,000 yuan ($2,170) a tonne in 1995 but now has fallen to about 15,000.
($1=8.3 yuan)