Air cargo rates on European routes from Hong Kong are to be increased for the second time in as many months, AHK Air Hong Kong Ltd's chief operating officer, Stanley Hui told Reuters in an interview.
Eastbound routes from Europe will also see cargo rates raised "a little bit," he said.
AHK is the territory's all-cargo airline and 75 percent owned by Cathay Pacific Airways Ltd.
Warning letters have already been sent to freight forwarders about a HK$2 per kilo rise from October 1, and the new rise follows informal talks with other cargo carriers operating out of Hong Kong, Hui said.
A HK$3 increase took effect on August I to try and boost revenue as airlines faced falling yields, rising competition and over-capacity, industry sources said.
"We are not trying to be greedy, just trying to get back to the original level at the start of the year. There has to be a rate increase or airlines will continue to lose money," Hui said.
He said there has been a 20 per cent drop in cargo selling rates over the past six months. At the end of last year the typical westbound cargo rate was HK$21 a kilo, recently this slumped to as low as HK$15, he added.
"With the rapid drop in cargo rates over the past six months it has been extremely difficult for any airline to make money. We have all suffered to various extent in the first half. I don't think any cargo airline has made money in the first of the year because of rapid decline in yields and if we can't make money with our cost structure, other passenger airlines must find it very difficult." Hui said.
He said another rate rise is unlikely to be popular but thinks there are the first signs of a recovery in the second half.
"There is a rebound in the second half starting with August. So far this month we have been doing very well in terms of tonnage. We have also managed to put in this two to three dollar rate increase and in general we have been very successful with it. Without the rate increase, airlines will continue to lose money," he added. --Air Cargo Newsroom Tel +44 171 542 8982 Fax +44 171 542 5017