Malaysian Prime Minister Mahathir Mohamad told beleagured national electricity company Tenaga Nasional Bhd on Wednesday to go out and sell its surplus power instead of complaining about the situation.
"When you have a product, you go out and sell," he said when asked about Tenaga Chairman Ani Arope's compalaint on Tuesday that the government gave out too many licenses too quickly to Independent Power Producers (IPPs), resulting in a 30-40 percent power surplus in the country.
"You just don't say that there is too much of a product,' Mahathir told reporters after opening an agricultural conference in Shah Alam, near the Malaysian capital.
Mahathir likened Ani's statement to "producing cars and saying, sorry, I have so many cars and it's not selling well.
"If you work on the basis of per capita consumption of electricity in Malaysia it's still well below that of many other countries. So we should increase consumption of electricity," Mahathir said.
Tenaga has been hit with widespread criticism, starting from the prime minister himself, after a 12-15 hour blackout in Peninsular Malaysia on August 3.
Ani, whose term as Tenaga chairman ends this month, is to be replaced with Tajuddin Ahmad, director-general of the Standards and Industrial Research Institute of Malaysia.
Asked about Tenaga's concern on calls to compensate its customers for losses incurred in the blackout, Mahathir said the Malaysian company should take the cue from another power outage in the western United States in early August, which also lasted several hours.
"We want to know how they (the U.S. parties) compensate or if they compensate at all," he said. "I am told there is a ceiling on compensation for such incidents."
The blackout cost industries an estimated loss of $49 million. It also indirectly caused the death of four children whose house caught fire from the candles they were using during the blackout.
Mahathir said his cabinet received on Wednesday a second report submitted by Tenaga on the blackout, with measures to insure it would not recur.
The cabinet rejected Tenaga's first report, submitted several days after the incident. Asked if the second report was more acceptable, Mahathir said: "Well, it's TNB's report." He declined to elaborate.
Malaysia is hiring a foreign consultant to review Tenaga's operations after the second massive blackout in four years triggered official outrage and embarrassment.
Energy Minister Leo Moggie told another news conference that the selection of the consultant was in final stages. "We will wait for the independent report. I can't comment on TNB's findings," said Moggie.