The court-appointed managers of Amcol Holdings Ltd are trying to win an assurance from Indonesian white knight Sinar Mas Group that creditors will be fully paid, sources close to the case said on Wednesday.
"The judicial managers are trying to arrange for Sinar Mas to say what assurance or comfort can be given to creditors that they will be paid," a source, who declined to be identified, told Reuters.
He said the assurance could come in a form of either a letter or a meeting with creditors.
The request for an assurance followed a demand by Amcol bondholders on Tuesday that Sinar Mas give them a written promise that bond obligations, totalling Singapore $285 million, would be fully paid.
The judicial managers -- Nicky Tan, Deborah Ong and Yeoh Oon Jin, all partners of Price Waterhouse -- were talking to Sinar Mas about its business strategies for Amcol, a property and trading firm, the sources said.
Amcol has been under judicial management since July, when a Price Waterhouse audit report said the company was in trouble with liabilities of Singapore $1.16 billion (US$820 million) and total assets at S$1.55 billion.
Price Waterhouse, as special auditor appointed to probe into the company's financial affairs, said Amcol needed an urgent cash injection of S$100 million to stay in business.
Last Friday, Amcol found its saviour in Sinar Mas, which said it would inject assets worth more than US$2.4 billion into a new company to be formed to takeover Amcol.
On Tuesday, more than 100 Amcol bondholders met the judicial managers to seek a commitment on bond obligations from Sinar Mas before August 30, the day the court will sit to confirm the interim judicial managers.
While Sinar Mas deal guaranteed Amcol share value at S$1.88, bondholders were concerned their interests were not adequately protected.
As creditors, bondholders rank legally higher than shareholders when a company's asset are to be distributed.
Sources close to Amcol dismissed the concerns.
"It has never been an issue that creditors including bondholders will not be paid. Assuming a worst case scenario and in the unlikely event that all provisions (in the Price Waterhouse report) have to be made, there will still be sufficent assets. Creditors will be paid in full," the source said.
"I don't think there is any reason to doubt their interest is not safe-guarded."
The source added that if the deal goes through, creditors might be paid as early as next year.
-- Singapore newsroom (65 8703080)