NASD released guidelines on how much it will fine securities firms that violate the reporting requirements of MSRB's "pay-to-play" rules.
The guidelines, which National Association of Securities Dealers published in its monthly report to members this week, call for minimum fines of $250 to $1,000 for firms that fail to file forms G-37 and G-38.
The standards follow the announcement last week by John Pinto, executive vice  president of NASD Regulation, that NASD has initiated 30 enforcement actions so far against bond firms for reporting and other violations of the two rules.
Salomon Brothers Inc and Morgan Keegan & Company Inc were among 11 firms with which NASD announced settlements Aug 16 concerning G-37 or G-38 reporting violations.
Enacted April 25, 1994, rule G-37 bars dealers that make contributions to issuer clients from doing business for two years with those governments. Dealers must keep records of contributions and report quarterly to MSRB using form G-37.
Enacted March 18, 1996, rule G-38 requires dealers to disclose information about their consultant arrangements to the public through the board via form G-38.
NASD's guidelines call for fines ranging from $250 to $1,000 for "initial inadvertent violations."
"Repeated violations should carry a larger fine (and) intentional violations should carry a substantially larger fine," according to the guidelines, which NASD's National Business Conduct Committee approved July 18.
The guidelines spell out when an individual or firm should be suspended from the municipal business and for how long.
"In an initial, unintentional violation, do not suspend either the firm or responsible individual," the guidelines say. "Where repeated violations exist, consider suspending the firm in all aspects of business for one to 30 business days."
The guidelines say, "Also consider suspending the responsible individual for one to 30 days" and requiring the person to requalify by examination.
Enforcement staff can suspend or bar individuals and suspend or expel firms for a  "substantially longer" time if intentially they did not file reports or sent "materially inaccurate" reports, NASD said.
NASD said enforcement staff should consider five factors when deciding on sanctions, including whether there was prior misconduct, the type of violation, and whether there was intent or negligence.
Staff also should consider whether the firm has "demonstrated corrective measures or (has) controls to prevent (a) recurrence," the guidelines say.
And staff can consider "other aggravating or mitigating factors," NASD said.
But those additional factors cannot include firms that argue the following: they misunderstood the rule, inadvertently failed to file a report, have no prior violations, made no political contributions or used no consultants during the reporting period, or took steps to prevent a recurrence, NASD said.
NASD reminds firms they have to submit forms G-37/38 within 30 days of the end of each calendar quarter if there were reportable contributions to issuer officials or payments to political parties; if the dealer does municipal business; or if the dealer used consultants to get municipal deals.
Mary Schapiro, the new president of NASD Regulation, said last week that NASD will create a separate tracking system that will make it easier for investors to identify firms that have violated the political contributions rules.
--Vicky Stamas, 202-898-8314