Transport group Koninklijke Nedlloyd Groep NV on Wednesday surprised the market and confounded analysts' expectations by posting a first-half net profit from ordinary operations of six million guilders ($3.60 million).
Nedlloyd made a 15 million guilder loss on its ordinary operations in the first quarter of the year but this was wiped out by a profit of 21 million guilders in the second quarter.
Analysts had expected a first-half loss of 15 to 35 million guilders versus a 38 million profit in the first half of 1995.
"Most analysts must be positively surprised," said Corne Zandbergen, analyst at Generale Bank.
Shares in the company jumped almost 10 percent on the news to 38.40 guilders, before closing up 2.10 guilders at 37.10.
Overall profits were swollen by an extraordinary gain of 247 million guilders on the sale of offshore drilling unit Neddrill and a 26 million guilder refund from the company's pension fund.
Total net profit including these gains soared to 276 million guilders from 96 million in the first half of last year. Nedlloyd had already indicated the gains on the Neddrill sale.
Nedlloyd was cautious about the outlook for the rest of the year but said it did not expect to close 1996 with a loss.
"The recovery of results in the ocean shipping sector strengthens the executive board in its confidence that we will not make a loss for the whole of 1996," it said.
But the unpredictability of market developments, especially in container shipping, made it impossible to make a precise forecast of 1996 results, it added.
Nedlloyd's core Ocean Shipping business posted a 22 million guilder profit in the second quarter after a 14 million guilder loss in the first quarter.
Nedlloyd said freight rates were substantially lower than last year, but added that cost cuts, a slight increase in volumes and a more profitable cargo mix had led to an improvement compared with the first quarter of this year.
But analysts said continued erosion of shipping tariffs may make further cost cutting at Nedlloyd essential.
"There's still ample capacity available and a lot of competition on most of their routes," said Rene van Geffen, analyst at F. Van Lanschot Bankers. ($1=1.665 Guilder)