Analysts reacted positively to second quarter earnings reported by Nedlloyd on Wednesday, but said the transport group would continue to struggle in the second half of the year.
"Most analysts must be positively surprised," said Corne Zandbergen, analyst at Generale Bank.
Nedlloyd reported a second quarter net profit from ordinary activities of 21 million guilders -- up three million from last year -- and a first half profit of six million. Most analysts had forecast the group would post a small loss.  
However, few analysts felt the slim first-half profit was satisfactory.
"Compared to the sales figures, (the profit) is very marginal. In terms of capital employed, it's still close to zero," said Bert van Hoogenhuyze, analyst at Amstgeld.
Most analysts' attention was focused on the performance of the company's Ocean Shipping division, which posted a profit of 22 million guilders, including 16 million guilders in proceeds from the sale of ships.
"Shipping always performs the worst or the best, so everyone looks at those figures first," said Zandbergen.  
Nedlloyd said freight rates were substantially lower than last year, but that cost cuts, a slight increase in volumes and a more profitable cargo mix had led to an improvement in the second quarter of this year compared with the first quarter.
Analysts said the continuing erosion of shipping tariffs may make further cost cutting at Nedlloyd essential.
"There's still ample capacity available and a lot of competition on most of their routes," said Rene van Geffen, analyst at F. Van Lanschot Bankers.  
Analysts were lukewarm about Nedlloyd's European Transport and Distribution arm where the contrasting performance of various units resulted in a two million guilder rise in second quarter net profits to 10 million.
"It seems for every good bit there's a bit that performs badly," said Van Hoogenhuyze.
An extraordinary gain of 247 million guilders on the sale of offshore drilling unit Neddrill was in line with expectations, but an additional gain of 26 million guilders -- a refund from the company's pension fund -- raised some eyebrows.
-- Amsterdam newsroom +31 20 504 5000, Fax +31 20 504 5040