Standard & Poor's said on Wednesday it raised its senior unsecured long-term debt and counterparty ratings of Merita Bank Ltd. to BBB plus from BBB.
S&P said in a statement it also raised the bank's dated subordinated debt rating to BBB from BBB minus, and the junior subordinated debt rating to BBB minus from BB.
It affirmed the A2 short-term debt and counterparty ratings and said the outlook for the long-term debt ratings was stable.  
"The rating action reflects the dominant position that Merita holds in the Finnish banking industry, its strong funding, and improving asset quality," S&P said.
Although the ratings were now based on the bank's own merits, S&P said it acknowledged the benefits Merita received from the Finnish government's ongoing support package for the banking system.
Merita was formed in 1995 through a merger between Union Bank of Finland (UBF) and Kansallis-Osake-Pankki (KOP), which at the time, were Finland's two largest banks. Merita now holds some 50 percent of lending and deposit markets in the country.
"While Merita should continue to benefit from the economies of scale that the merger has created, these benefits are somewhat offset by a very competitive operating environment that is placing downward pressure on margins, and thereby, suppressing the bank's ability to strengthen its profitability and capitalisation," the statement added.
It said management's ability to diversify the bank's income streams, while aggressively reducing a high cost base, would be an important factor in improving the financial strength of Merita in the future.
An improving domestic economy, which has brought interest rates down to historically low levels, has been the main driving force in reducing Merita's credit losses and nonperforming loans, the statement said.
However, as Merita's lending profile was strongly focused on the Finnish market, it said the bank would remain vulnerable to economic downturns, and S&P continued to have concerns regarding asset concentration in the domestic economy.
--International Bonds Unit +44 171 542 6784