British gas industry regulator Ofgas on Wednesday announced a softer stance in a crucial price review of British Gas, but a row between the two looked set to continue as the privatised utility it was disappointed by the level of concessions.
Ofgas wants British Gas pipeline operating company TransCo to cut its charges to gas suppliers by 20 percent in 1997/98 and by 2.5 percent in the years thereafter.
Ofgas said in a statement that its final proposals could lead to a cut in average British domestic gas bills of almost 30 pounds ($46) in 1997, rising to over 50 pounds in 2001.
"We are confident that these final proposals offer TransCo a realistic target for the next price control period and an appropriate incentive to improve efficiency and earn reward. We hope British Gas will accept the proposals," said Ofgas director general Clare Spottiswoode.
But British Gas said it was disappointed with the review and wanted further talks.
"We have been discouraged by the very few concessions that have been made by the regulator," Philip Rogerson, British Gas deputy chairman, told Reuters.
"We have up until October 7 for further discussions and we shall be looking to use that time constructively... We are still hoping Ofgas will amend its proposals."
When Ofgas made its initial proposals, which included price cuts of 20 to 28 percent in 1997/98 and five percent thereafter, British Gas said the regime could cost up to 10,000 jobs at TransCo.
Rogerson said the firm stood by that figure after Ofgas' latest plans, adding: "We see no reason to change our view on jobs."
The level of the potential job losses has raised concerns over safety at TransCo if the price review goes ahead at these levels.
However, Spottiswoode dismissed the idea and said that independent safety watchdog, the Health and Safety Executive, had found the assumptions underpinning her proposals would not hit safety.
If British Gas rejects the proposals, Ofgas will almost certainly then refer the matter to Britain's competition authority, the Monopolies and Mergers Commission (MMC).
Investors dread this as it will prolong the uncertainty surrounding the firm as it plans its demerger into TransCo and its gas trading arm, scheduled to take place early in 1997.
Rogerson said the firm had no fear of going to the MMC if the dialogue with Ofgas up to October 7 proved fruitless.
"Any time between then and now we can bring things to a close," he said.
Spottiswoode also struck a tone that suggested Ofgas' position was firm, and an MMC referral likely.
"I wouldn't go any further without taking it to the MMC," she told Reuters.
The tone of the dispute between British Gas and Spottiswoode, has worried some investors. But Rogerson said the relationship was polite and businesslike.
"We just have fundamental disagreements on most of the issues," he added.
Shares in British Gas rose in initial response to the Ofgas statement but later eased back to show a gain of four pence at 202 after a high of 210. Dealers said much of Ofgas' concesssions had alredy been factored into the price. ($1=.6471 Pound)