By Neil Winton, Science and Technology Correspondent
Growth in European personal computer sales is expected to more than halve in 1996 but the industry will still be expanding at a rate which most sectors only dream about.
According to COMPAQ Computer Corp, the world's biggest producer of personal computers, sales growth in Europe this year by all manufacturers will slow to less than half of the rapid 35 percent rate set in 1995.
COMPAQ is launching its Presario range of products in Europe. It hopes the Presario will be simple enough to allow it to make a play for a largely untapped mass market for personal computers.
"Growth for the whole year (in Europe) will be about 15 percent, which looks nice but is still far behind the predicted 35 percent that was predicted by forecasting companies like Dataquest. Last year growth was 35 percent," COMPAQ's Consumer Group vice-president, Toon Bouten, said in an interview.
Last month research company CONTEXT said European personal computer sales in the three months ended June 30 were 10.4 percent above the same period last year at 3,580,040.
COMPAQ was market leader with 12.1 percent, followed by International Business Machines Corp's 9.7 percent and Hewlett-Packard with 5.4 percent.
Bouten said the slowing sales growth was largely due to a lack of consumer confidence in Germany, Europe's biggest market.
German consumers, worried by the economic outlook late last year, quickly switched to saving from spending. Confidence should return during the fourth 1996 quarter, Bouten said.
Personal computer sales exploded across the world in the nineties. About 35 percent of American households now have computers, while the figure is about 20 percent in Europe.
Industry experts say that most sales represent purchases by businesses and the computer-literate, who perhaps work in the industry or use computers at work.
These individuals can handle quirky high-technology machines, which often crash and present frustrated users with impossibly jargon-ridden instructions.
The personal computer industry is investing heavily to produce new machines which are more intuitive to use. It is seeking a breakthrough like the old Ford Model T, which was said to be the first modern automobile that could be driven without needing a mechanic in the passenger seat.
COMPAQ hopes that its Presario range will make a dent in this new mass market.
"(Mass market) consumers are not willing to pick up a manual. We want our PCs to look more like hi-fi or TV sets," said Bouten.
He said the new range had direct access buttons which switch the PC across a range of uses.
"These easy access buttons mean that you can change the PC into a telephone with one touch, then to a fax, or a CD player and back to an Internet connection," Bouten said.
He declined to predict COMPAQ's sales projections.
The Presario range of home PCs sell for between $2,000 and $5,000 and are on sale from Wednesday in Britain, France, Italy and the Netherlands.