Prospects for closer links between the air cargo operations of British Airways PLc and American Airlines are "very favourable", American Airline's cargo spokesman, Tom Harwood told Reuters in a telephone interview.
Speaking from Dallas he said that both sides had found more grounds for alignment than separation.
The joint implementation group set up by the two carriers on how to align their cargo operations will present its findings at an August 29 meeting in New York to William Boesch, American's cargo president, and Kevin Hatton, managing director of BA World Cargo, Harwood added.
The group will come to the meeting armed with specific recommendations, he said.
These will then be incorporated into a final filing to the U.K. and U.S. governments whose approval or otherwise of the total alliance is hoped for by early November.  
The presentation will cover "five key issues" in seeking to ascertain whether a more integrated operation was achievable or whether they should remain separate, Harwood said.
The automation of cargo handling, including the barcoding of freight items, were among the more complex points under scrutiny, he added.
He summarised the five key issues under review as follows:
1 - What to do with the two carriers' existing freight products;
2 - How to reconcile and overcome the operating differences between the American and British product lines;
3 - How to share the revenue and profit attributable to the two companies' freight services;
4 - Customer service and booking procedures and how to create a seamless booking environment;
5 - Ways in which the partners can share their respective cargo automation and computing service.
The implementation team had undertaken a series of joint consultations before returning to their respective companies, to take decisions on the key issues, he said.
He added: "In essence, we have to decide between us which products will survive and which won't. British Airways tends to offer flight-specific freight products whereas American Airlines has a combination of flight-specific and time-definite products."
"Determining what to keep and what to eliminate are the decisions that have to be made," he said.
-- Air Cargo Newsroom Tel+44 171 542 7706 Fax+44 171 542 5017