The jury is still out among analysts whether British Gas should reject or accept the final Ofgas proposals for a new TransCo pricing regime.
Those in favour of accepting argue the utility should forget about regulation for the moment and devote its energy to fighting increased competition and prepare for its planned split-up.
"Following the easing of the Ofgas proposals the British Gas board should accept them at the earliest possibility and get on with their business," said Irene Himona at SG Strauss Turnbull.  
But BZW's Daniel Martin said British Gas should not give in as it has good reasons to believe it would find the Monopolies and Merger Commission (MMC) on its side.
The MMC will vet the Ofgas proposals if British Gas deems them unacceptable. British Gas has until October 7 to decide.
"I advice them (British Gas) to reject," said Martin.
Ofgas is propoing that TransCo cut its charges to gas suppliers by 20 percent in 1997 and by 2.5 percent in the following four years.
The watchdog had initially demanded a one-off price cut of 20 to 28 percent and a drop of five percent in subsequent years.  
Ofgas arrived at its proposals by employing a new method, assuming adjusted depreciation rather than full depreciation of TransCo's assets.
"There is no precedent for that. It is a new thing and no other regulator has ever tried that. It is worth a try at the MMC," said Martin.
British Gas said earlier it wanted further talks with Ofgas, but director general Clare Spottiswoode said only details were still open for negotiation.
She said she had taken a slightly more lenient stance in her final proposals after having received new data from British Gas.  
Another reason to soften the proposals was to prevent accusations that she aimed to mend any false generosity in the past.
Analysts, however, agreed that the final review had remained harsh overall, probably forcing British Gas to trim its 1997 dividend to around 10 pence from 14.50 pence in 1995. Some analysts predict a cut in the 1996 interim pay-out.
-- Hans de Jongh, London Newsroom +44 171 542 7717