French utilities group Compagnie Generale des Eaux is to run most of southeast England's commuter train services into London in return for spending 400 million pounds ($619 million) on new trains.
Britain's Office of Passenger Rail Franchising (OPRAF) said on Wednesday it had decided to award a 15-year franchise contract for the South Eastern Train Company to the French group's CGEA division.
CGEA already holds one franchise, South Central, and becomes the first owner of more than one British passenger train operator -- 25 of which are in the process of being privatised.
As well as pledging to take South Eastern into profit, so that it contributes funds to the government rather than receving a subsidy, CGEA's Connex Rail unit will spend 400 million pounds on replacement trains over the next 10 years.
"We believe we can turn this operation into a model franchise... We are committed to spending 400 million pounds to replace the entire rolling stock within the next 10 years, with the first new trains coming in in 1999," Connex chairman Colin Webster said.
"By the time this franchise ends, the enterprise will be standing on its own two feet," he added.
Transport minister Sir George Young said the award was a milestone in the franchising programme because it meant that, in terms of total passenger miles, over half the country's rail services were now awarded to the private sector.
He also welcomed the French firm's commitment to make South Eastern profitable by the end of the franchise and require no subsidy as "excellent news for the taxpayer".
In a joint statement with OPRAF, the French group said it would receive a subsidy of 125.4 million pounds in the first year of the contract, falling over the 15 years so that in the final year it would pay the state a net 2.8 million pounds.
The average subsidy would be 35.7 million pounds per year over the life of the contract. This year, South Eastern's net annual subsidy is 120.8 million pounds.
Connex said that South Eastern would be run as an independent business from South Central -- a slightly smaller but similar company that operates suburban and inter-urban lines south of London that geographically adjoin South Eastern's.
The two share the use of several central London stations including London Bridge, Charing Cross and Blackfriars.
The CGEA unit will continue to seek further franchises from among the 15 still to be contracted out.
"Ideally, we would get maybe two or three more franchises and we would broaden our portfolio with some non-suburban services," said Antoine Hurel, Connex vice chairman.
He added that the new trains being planned for South Eastern would be air conditioned and with lower density seating than on the many ageing passenger trains currently used by the line.
Hurel told Reuters that CGEA was already in discussion with several train manufacturers and rolling stock leasing companies about orders for new trains.
However, in view of the financial strength of its parent group, it was also considering the option of forming a separate train-owning company to buy the trains and then lease them for service on South Eastern.
Hurel said the company expected to decide on its renewal plans in detail by the end of this year.
In addition, Connex said it would spend 25 million pounds on station improvements, including better ticketing and car parks. ($1=.6460 Pound)