French utility and service group Generale des Eaux agreed a 15-year franchise contract with the British government on Wednesday, for its second regional passenger train operating company in the UK -- South Eastern.
The deal will involve the company's CGEA division spending 400 million stg on trains to replace old models over the next 10 years, with the first of them coming into service in 1999.
In a joint statement with Britain's Office of Passenger Rail Franchising (OPRAF), the French group said it would receive a subsidy of 125.4 million stg in the first year of the contract, falling to an average of 35.7 million stg over the 15 year term.  
In the final year, the operator has agreed it will pay the government a net contribution of 2.8 million stg.
This year, net of a pre-set profit element, the government is giving South Eastern a subsidy of 120.8 million stg. Colin Webster, chairman of CGEA operating unit Connex Rail Ltd, said in the statement, "We believe we can turn this operation into a model fanchise... we are committed to spending 400 million stg to replace the entire rolling stock within the next 10 years with first new trains coming in in 1999".
"By the time this franchise ends, the enterprise will be standing on its own two feet," he added.  
Antoine Hurel, Connex vice chairman, said the new trains being planned would be air conditioned and offer lower density seating than the many ageing passenger trains currently used on South Eastern network across southern London and Kent. Hurel told Reuters that CGEA was already in discussion with several train manufacturers, and rolling stock leasing companies, about orders for new trains but was also considering the option of forming a separate train owning company of its own from which South Eastern could then lease the units.
He said the company expected to have decided on its renewal plans in detail by the end of this year.  
Connex is committed to maintaing certain levels of service as well as seeking to meet higher standards of punctuality and reliability.
It will operate "at least the current number of train miles for the first three years of the franchise, with a number of service enhancements in the inner and outer suburban areas".
Connex also intends to spend 25 million stg on improvements to stations and services, including ticketing and car parks.
Webster said the franchise would be run "entirely separately" from the company's existing South Central franchise, although he saw some scope for cost savings.
Franchising director Roger Salmon welcomed the deal, calling it, "the largest rolling stock replacement programme so far by a franchisee."
Transport minister Sir George Young called the award a milestone in the franchsing programme because it meant that, in terms of total passenger miles, "over half the country's rail services (are) now awarded to the private sector".
He also welcomed the French firm's commitment to make South Eastern profitable by the end of the franchise and require no subsidy as "excellent news for the taxpayer."
-- London Newsroom +44 171 542 7717