Utility British Gas Plc said on Wednesday that it was stil undecided whether to accept or reject a proposed price review from industry regulator Ofgas.
"We have up until October 7 for further discussions and we shall be looking to use that time constructively," Philip Rogerson, British Gas deputy chairman, told Reuters in an interview.
The review proposed that British Gas Plc's pipeline operating company TransCo cut its charges to gas suppliers by 20 percent in 1997/98 and by 2.5 percent in the years thereafter.  
The price curbs proposed are at the bottom of a previously announced range of possible cuts.
But Rogerson said he was disappointed at the review.
"We have been discouraged by the very few concessions that have been made by the regulator," he said.
At the time the review was first announced, British Gas said it could cost up to a possible 10,000 jobs at TransCo and Rogerson said the firm was standing by that figure in the light of Ofgas' latest plans.
"We see no reason to change our view on jobs," he said.  
Rogerson said the firm is still hoping Ofgas will adjust its review downwards in the talks that lie ahead.
"We shall continue talking to Ofgas as long as we think there is a useful point in doing so. We are still hoping Ofgas will amend its proposals," he said.
If British Gas rejects the proposals Ofgas will almost certainly then refer the matter to the Monopolies and Mergers Commission (MMC). Investors dread this as it will prolong the uncertainty surrounding the firm as it plans its demerger.
Rogerson said the firm had no fear of going to the MMC if the dialogue with Ofgas up to October 7 proved fruitless.  
"Any time between then and now we can bring things to a close," he said.
The tone of the dispute between British Gas and Ofgas, and its director general Clare Spottiswoode, has worried some investors.
But Rogerson said the relationship was polite and businesslike. "We just have fundamental disagreements on most of the issues," he said.
-- Paul Harris, London Newsroom +44 171 542 8823