One of Qatar's three multi- billion-dollar liquefied natural gas (LNG) projects is set to come onstream next month, a Qatari energy official said on Wednesday.
"All pre-commissioning tests have been completed and the main contractor Chiyoda is to hand over the first train facilities to us in mid-September when we will start production," said the official at Qatar Liquefied Gas Company.
"The second train will be delivered in the fourth week of October or early November and the third train in 1998."
Qatar Liquefied Gas Co, or Qatargas, is designed to produce six million tonnes of LNG a year for the Japanese market.
Chubu Electric Power Co has signed a sale-and-purchase agreement (SPA) for four million tonnes a year for 25 years from early 1997, and seven other Japanese utilities two million tonnes a year from mid-1998.
The official said the first ship carrying 135,000 cubic metres of LNG will set sail for Nagoya "around Christmas" and unload the cargo at Chubu's terminal on January 10, 1997.
Qatargas is the first of Qatar's three giant gas export projects to cash in on its mammoth North Field reserves and diversify its oil-dependent economy.
It is 65 percent owned by the state Qatar General Petroleum Corp, 10 percent each by U.S. Mobil Corp and France's Total SA, and 7.5 percent each by Japan's Mitsui & Co Ltd and Marubeni Corp.
The project is estimated to have cost around $6 billion.
The official said initially the complex would produce four million tonnes of LNG, committed to Chubu, and in the next stage when the third train is added, production would be increased to six million tonnes to supply to other Japanese customers.
QGPC and Mobil who own the second venture, the Ras Laffan LNG Company, on a 70-30 percent basis, are going ahead with work to start production at that plant in July 1999.
South Korea's Korean Gas Corp has signed an SPA to buy 2.4 million tonnes a year for 25 years from mid-1999 from Ras Laffan and has an option for another three million tonnes from 2000.
Ras Laffan LNG Company, or Rasgas, is eventually designed to produce 10 million annually.
Qatar's third project is a $4 billion joint venture with U.S. Enron Corp to produce five million a year of LNG for India and Mediterranean markets, including Israel.