Subdued business during the long hot Arabian summer continues to take its toll on Dubai's air cargo market, with rates languishing at the year's lows.
Operators have resigned themselves to at least another month of lean margins, but:"In the next month and a half it should go back up," Air Express International's Emirates manager Paul Lattouf said.
"It probably won't improve until October, and even then there will still be the problem of severe overcapacity," another said.
"From Dubai it is now fairly quiet, as it usually is in July and August. A lot of decision makers are out of Dubai so whatever orders that have been placed, were placed a month or so ago," Lattouf added.
"The market is very dull and the competition between airlines intense. Some are selling at dead-cheap rates and they are not even collecting their aviation fuel charges," the Dubai cargo officer for a Far Eastern carrier said.
Trading activity in Dubai, the gateway to the Gulf and an important East-West trans-shipment point, traditionally eases during the summer holiday season.
But this year's slowdown has been exacerbated by shrinking sea-air business from the Indian subcontinent and the Far East.
The airport said sea-air freight volumes fell a year-on-year 8.6 percent in July to 5,012 tonnes -- the fourth successive year-on-year fall so far in 1996. It follows drops of 34.7 percent in April, 17.7 percent in May and 3.3 percent in June.
Sea-air freight has always been an important part of air cargo shipments out of Dubai. Goods are brought in bulk by sea and are then broken down into smaller packages and sent by air mainly to Europe and the United States.
But operators say this business has come under pressure in the past few months. Air freight rates in the Far East and Indian subcontinent have eased, prompting shippers to send their goods directly by air, rather than use sea-air, they say.
"The re-export side is down and lots of lower ad-hoc rates are being offered," said a forwarder.
"Some airlines are going empty because the rates are so low," another said of the many carriers which make a technical stop in Dubai en route between Europe and the Far East, and try to fill any available space with cargo from Dubai.
"To London, Frankfurt and Amsterdam we are going as low as three or up to a maximum of 3.50 dirhams a kg, but some are going down to 2.20-2.50," one airline cargo manager said.
Reuters' calculations put the average rate on a 100 kg shipment with a six-to-one volume-to-weight ratio to London Heathrow down three fils on a month earlier at 3.57 dirhams.
Before then, the average rate had been static at 3.60 since the Reuter June 7 ex-Dubai market report.
Mirroring the slip to London, the average rate to Frankfurt is also down at 3.57 dirhams from 3.60.
Volumes to the United States are still slim with rates on the route out of Dubai sticking around the levels seen in the past few months.
The average rate to JKF is at 5.80 dirhams a kg and the rate to Los Angeles is also unchanged at an average 6.60.
"Over 500 kg we are offering 5.30 to New York," a cargo officer at a large Gulf-based carrier said.
With business to the Far East continuing slow, the average rates to Singapore and Hong Kong are flat at last month's 3.90.
"We don't really change those rates because demand is always thin," said a forwarder.
Similarly, to Nairobi the average rate on a 100 kg shipment is keeping within its established 3.90-3.95 band, at 3.93 dirhams a kg on August 21.
-- Dubai newsroom +9714-626990