Shares in Newbridge Networks Corp soared on Wednesday after the company laid to rest lingering investor fears with a solid first quarter report.
The company's first quarter earnings of C$0.70 or US$0.51 a share beat consensus estimates by two U.S. cents. This proved last month's first quarter warnings from two U.S. analysts unjustified, analysts said.
"The numbers were not just good...but more importantly, you see sequential and year-over-year order growth in ATM (asynchronous transfer mode), in frame (relay) and in TDM (time division multiplexing)," said analyst Robert MacLellan.  
"It's a quarter that if you were a bear on Newbridge, you would have a very hard time finding anything to complain about. It all looked great," MacLellan added.
The stock spiked 8.45 to 75.00 on the Toronto Stock Exchange and 6-1/2 to 54-7/8 on Wall Street.
Analysts' warnings about the quarter from UBS Securities and Needham & Co in July sent the stock diving. It has been in recovery mode recently with other brokerages issuing reassuring reports ahead of the earnings release.
"The numbers were very solid," said one portfolio manager who declined to be identified.  
"No matter how you slice and dice them, there're no tricks, no smoke, no mirrors. They don't just look good, they are good," the portfolio manager said.
The stock has fallen from a year peak of 102 in May to below 57 in Toronto in late July after the first caution.
Newbridge said Tuesday it is on track for another strong year. The company, which manufactures networking equipment, also on Tuesday said it planned to renew its normal course issuer bid. Under the renewed bid, Newbridge will have the right to purchase four million, or about 4.7 percent, of its common shares during the next 12 months.  
JP Morgan said analyst William Rabin upgraded shares of Newbridge Networks Corp to buy from market performer and raised earnings estimates to US$2.22 per share from US$2 for fiscal 1997 ending April 30.
He also increased his 1998 forecast to US$2.76 from US$2.40 for 1998.
-- Sarah Edmonds, Reuters Toronto Bureau (416) 941-8100, E-mail sarah.edmonds@reuters.com