Northwest Airlines will offer the maximum number of trans-pacific freighter rotations - 19 round trips per week - for the autumn cargo peak, airline spokesman Doug Killian said.
The 19 round trips are unchanged from last year's fall-winter schedule and the current summer schedule, he told Reuters in a telephone interviews added.
Normally, the airline would have at least one of its eight Boeing 747 freighters out of service during the summer for scheduled maintenance, but was able to keep all eight flying this year, he said.
"The market is looking good," he said.
The 1996-97 winter schedule includes a freighter service to Osaka's Kansai International Airport, inaugurated for the summer schedule, said Killian.
Northwest will serve Kansai twice weekly westbound from the U.S. and five times weekly eastbound to the U.S. as part of through flights to/from Tokyo, Hong Kong and Taipei.
Northwest's freighter gateways in the U.S. include New York, San Francisco, Minneapolis, Columbus (Ohio), Chicago, San Francisco and Los Angeles. All flights refuel in Anchorage.
In Asia, Northwest's freighters serve Osaka, Tokyo, Seoul, Taipei, Hong Kong, Bangkok and Singapore.
Killian also said the airline will have significantly more belly cargo space on passenger flights to Beijing, now that it has started a non-stop Detroit-Beijing service.
Northwest will operate six passenger flights weekly to Beijing, including three operating on a Los Angeles-Tokyo-Beijing routing, said Killian.
Beijing is a very solid cargo market in both directions, he said.
"There is a lot of high-yielding freight, a lot of manufactured goods and textiles moving from China to North America and a lot of high-tech equipment moving particularly from Florida and Texas to China on our flights to Beijing."
Killian said there is also a large livestock trade developing from the U.S. to China, but that moves on freighters, and Northwest will unable be able to put a freighter into China until at least 1998. --Air Cargo Newsroom Tel +44 171 542 8982 Fax +44 171 542 5017