Freight forwarders still object to key elements of new U.S. air cargo security rules, the U.S. Airforwarders Association executive director James Foster said.
Foster told Reuters in a telephone interview that the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) had made some changes in recent days but did not satisfy the forwarders' principal objections.
The FAA said on Tuesday that it would implement the new rules on August 28, 12 days later than originally planned.
The rules, a response to the ValuJet and TWA tragedies, were set to take effect originally on August 16, but the FAA suspended their implementation amid a barrage of criticism from forwarders, consolidators and shippers.
The cargo community said the new rules created an additional paperwork burden, would slow the flow of cargo and would not appreciably improve security.
"They have made a few changes, but the paperwork objection still stands as well as the objection to the wording," said Foster.
The regulations specify that shippers must produce two pieces of photo identification when making a shipment and certify in writing that it does not contain explosives or destructive or dangerous materials.
The documentation must be kept on file by the forwarder or carrier until after the safe arrival of the shipment at its final destination.
Many shippers and forwarders have denounced this as excessively bureaucratic, says Foster.
"It doesn't really seem to serve a purpose," he said. "It is fairly objectionable to the shipper the way things are worded."
He said many forwarders believe the existing security measures are sufficient to protect the commercial air cargo stream.
"We feel this was an over-reaction to circumstances that really haven't been shown to have anything to do with commercial cargo."
Under existing U.S. security rules, freight forwarders can accept shipments only from known companies. Forwarders and shippers say it is unlikely that the additional requirement for photo ID will stop a terrorist, only leave a longer paper trail for investigators to follow after a tragedy.
Foster said there also is a concern that the new rules will slow processing of air freight.
"When you slow it down, you reduce the value in shipping by air," he added.
--Air Cargo Newsroom Tel +44 171 542 8982 Fax +44 171 542 5017