German steel and engineering group Fried. Krupp AG Hoesch-Krupp on Wedensday cited continued weakness in the German economy as it reported profits tumbled 17 percent in the first half of 1996.
Krupp said in an interim report that all six of its business divisions were profitable in the first six months of the year, but that the sluggish economy hit the group's steel division, causing profit to slide.
Pre-tax earnings fell to 185 million marks ($124.2 million) from 223 million marks in the same period the year before. Sales edged up one percent to 11.7 billion marks and orders rose two percent to 12.7 billion marks.
"The decline is a result of the unsatisfactory economic development during the period under review," Krupp said. "The drop in earnings in the steel sector and related industries could be only partially offset."
Krupp warned that business in the second half of the year would not recover as strongly as previously thought. The statement sent the company's shares tumbling on the Frankfurt stock exchange. At midday they were trading down 2.7 percent at 214 marks. The broader market was down 0.62 percent.
The market interpreted Krupp's statement as a profit warning, which also put pressure on shares in Thyssen AG, Germany's biggest steel maker.
Demand for steel in Europe in the first half of the year was well below year-earlier levels and put pressure on steel prices. Sales and turnover in the stainless steel division rose because of acquisitions, particularly the takeover of a majority stake in Italy's Acciai Speciali Terni.
Turnover advanced 43 percent to 2.8 billion marks and orders rose 35 percent to 2.5 billion marks, but Krupp said prices on flat steel products were not satisfactory.
Krupp said sales in the quality steel and sectional steel division fell 14 percent to 2.4 billion marks and orders dropped 21 percent to 2.5 billion marks.
Engineering sales rose eight percent to 1.4 billion marks, but orders were down eight percent because of divestments in the sector. Orders in the synthetics group, a subdivision of the engineering division, surpassed year-earlier levels.
It said U.S.-based Caterpillar Inc would buy its Krupp MaK Maschinenbau engineering subsidiary. The Kiel-based unit was a leading maker of large diesel engines. It said the deal would be concluded in the next few months.
Plant construction turnover surged 35 percent to 789 million marks, while orders in the division jumped 81 percent because of the acquistion of Dortmund-based Uhde GmbH. Krupp said the takeover would improve its position in Asian and Latin American markets.
Sales in the processing division fell 10 percent to 1.3 billion marks and orders fell 18 percent to 1.4 billion marks. Krupp said the orders situation was unsatisfactory and attributed it to weakness in the car industry.
The weak steel business also hit the trading and services division, where turnover slipped 11 percent to 2.9 billion marks. Orders fell 10 percent to 3.1 billion marks.
Looking ahead to the rest of the year, Krupp said it would continue efforts to reshape its industrial portfolio.
"The second half of 1996 will be generally more difficult than previously expected," it said, adding that the company would remain profitable in the full year and would pay what it called an "appropriate dividend" on 1996 results.
The group workforce totalled 72,000 employees at the end of June, up 3,000 from a year earlier because of acquisitions. ($1=1.4895 Mark)