Finnish national carrier Finnair Oy chief executive officer Antti Potila on Wednesday repeated his warning that the airline's profit in 1996/97 would be weaker than the previous financial year's 533 million markka.
"The result of the new financial year will be weaker than last year," Potila told the shareholders' meeting according to a copy of his prepared speech.  
"I have already earlier said that the good results trend of the last few years will unfortunately not continue," he said.
Releasing results for the year to March 31, Finnair on June 14 said the new financial year would be "substantially weaker with respect to both growth and performance".
On Wednesday, Potila said growth in demand had slowed at the start of calendar 1996 and "the slowdown in revenue growth has been rapid and it has not been possible to curb the increase in costs equally quickly."
"Fortunately there are now signs of a recovery in demand although the uncertainty is still great," he said.  
Finnair was on a solid financial footing, but plenty of hard work was needed to turn the profitability trend back into a rise, Potila said.
By end-March, Finnair's interest-bearing net debts fell to less than 10 percent of group turnover, which rose eight percent in 1995/96 to 7.2 billion markka.
The current phase of transition in Europe's aviation industry would go on for a long time, Potila said. Cheap-fare airlines operating at lower costs than established carriers were trying to become serious contenders on the most lucrative routes.  
There was increasing pressure towards broad structural changes, Potila said, adding that in the short and medium term, more cooperation between airlines was likelier than outright mergers into bigger corporate entities.
"Although the trend may gradually be moving in that direction (mergers), I don't think the time is ripe nor would it solve profitability problems in the short term," he said.
Size helped strengthen marketing power, but did not have any material impact on actual flight operation costs or efficiency, Potila said.
--Helsinki Newsroom  +358 - 0 - 680 50 245