German telecoms giant Deutsche Telekom AG on Wednesday outlined its programme of cheaper shares for private investors, aimed at luring sceptical Germans into buying shares when it is privatised in November.
The state-owned telecommunications group has come up with a variety of carrots to dangle before the traditionally equity-averse German investor.
Telekom said there will be price reductions for private investors, as well as loyalty shares for investors who hold their shares for three years, which will be issued on a ratio of one to ten.
The price reductions and the loyalty shares would be available for the first 300 shares purchased per investor and the prospectus relating to the share issue would be available in October, Telekom said.
The Telekom sell-off will be Germany's biggest-ever privatisation and will be one of the largest public offerings ever in Europe.
When it is fully sold off, Telekom is expected to account for four percent of the total value of the DAX index of German shares and Telekom expects to gain around 15 billion marks ($10.10 billion) from the listing.
However, the goodwill of private investors is considered essential if the planned issue is to be a success as the sell-off will require increased levels of liquidity.
"Small shareholder consciousness levels are very low in Germany, but Deutsche Telekom seems to be making all the right moves to raise them," said Nicole Cousins, telecoms analyst with Bank Julius Baer in Frankfurt.
Would-be investors who are members of the share information forum (AIF) would receive preferential treatment when the shares are issued, Telekom said.
Telekom will start a new marketing campaign on Thursday aimed at attracting more members for the AIF, which has attracted 1.5 million enquiries from investors interested in joining the forum.
New members have to register by the beginning of October.
The share's price range, as well as the price reduction for small investors will be made known in the second half of October.
Developing a share-owning culture in Germany has become a major talking point. German investors traditionally favour less-risky bonds over equities, and the success or failure of the Telekom sell-off should give some indication of the fate of the fledgling German equity culture.
As such, German banks are putting their considerable weight behind the Telekom sell-off by offering attractive savings plans and special provisions to would-be share buyers.
Telekom's chief financial officer Joachim Kroeske told journalists at a briefing that private investors would be allowed to buy a maximum of 300 shares at a special reduced rate and could invest up to 10,000 marks in Telekom shares.
Analysts said that this implies that the shares could be offered to individual investors at 33 marks each, broadly in line with what marketeers had been expecting.
"I was expecting around 30 or 31 marks, so 33 marks is around what we were anticipating," said Cousins.
($1=1.4850 Mark)