Troubled German engine maker KHD on Wednesday revised its 1995 results to show a group net loss of 1.13 billion marks ($760.9 million), and disputed speculation that top management covered up losses on Saudi cement plants.
Kloeckner-Humboldt-Deutz AG, said the 1.06 billion mark bail-out it received in June from Deutsche Bank and other creditors, boosted it to a profit of 819.6 million marks in the first half of 1996, and that its future appeared secure.
KHD will shed the plant construction unit responsible for the losses in Saudi Arabia, now estimated at 960 million marks, and concentrate on its diesel-engine business.
It will also change its name to Deutz AG.
Sales in 1996 are seen at 2.2 to 2.3 billion marks, rising by 200 million marks in 1997, chairman Anton Schneider told a news conference. The company hopes to break even for the full year.
Schneider and chief financial officer Klaus Edelmann strenuously disputed speculation that they had been informed of the losses at subsidiary Humboldt Wedag long before the management board disclosed them in May, and that they had knowingly participated in the cover-up.
Schneider and Edelmann asserted that Wedag management alone had deliberately deceived the company, its creditors and shareholders.
An independent audit by Wollert-Elmendorff Deutsche Industrie Treuhand GmbH showed that at the time of the original report on the 1995 results, the KHD management board had no reason to believe the Wedag results had been manipulated.
"All insinuations that we, and that I personally, was informed early of the Wedag losses are disproved," Schneider said.
KHD is still seeking a buyer for Wedag, and is negotiating with its Saudi clients to minimise late-completion penalties and demands for services not covered by the contracts, and to accelerate completion of the projects.
Two of the cement plants are nearly complete, and the third should be finished by the second half of 1997.
KHD's first-half profit was completely attributable to the effects of the massive rescue by banks and creditors.
Without the effects of the rescue plan, KHD made a loss of 108.9 million marks in the first six months of the year compared to a loss of 184.1 million marks during the same period in 1995.
"This result is considerably better than the year before and better than expected," KHD said in a statement.
In April, KHD reported a 1995 loss of 174 million marks, but the disclosure of the losses at Wedag forced it to make major revisions.
KHD was brought to the brink of collapse by the disclosure that executives at its Wedag unit had hidden losses associated with several Saudi cement plant contracts. The executives are under investigation.
The company said the effects of its rescue by banks and creditors, carrying forward losses from 1994 and drawing down reserves would completely offset the 1995 loss.
KHD said that with the effects of cash aid totalling more than 800 million marks it was aiming to achieve break-even this year. ($1=1.4850 Mark)