Lower than expected first half profits at Swiss banking group CS Holding underscore the urgency of huge restructuring plans announced by the conglomerate in July, analysts said.
Analysts said net profit for the first six months, which increased 20 percent after minority interests, was below most expectations. Costs grew more strongly than widely forecast.
But several analysts also said the quality of CS profits was increasing and added that the group had greater potential than rivals Union Bank of Switzerland (UBS) or Swiss Bank Corp (SBC) because it was restructuring later.  
Market forecasts of net profit had ranged between 879 million and 1.104 billion Swiss francs, compared to the group's 830 million after minority interests.
"The difference between CS Holding and the other two big banks underscores the need for restructuring," said banking analyst Thomas Bieri at Zurich Cantonal Bank.
"I have the impression that costs are relatively high at CS Holding than at the others," he told Reuters.
CS Holding's total operating expenses rose 17 percent, which it said was mainly due to incentive bonuses paid to staff.  
John Leonard from Salomon Bros in London said he was puzzled that staff bonuses had risen so strongly.
CS Holding said incentive pay comprised 400 million Swiss francs of an overall increase in staff costs of 498 million, or 21 percent, to 2.86 billion Swiss francs.
"I know incentive payments increase generally as revenues grow. But it was a real source of suprise that the accruals for incentive compensation rose so strongly," he said.
"Total costs were a couple of hundred million (Swiss francs) more than I expected," Leonard added.  
Leonard said the cost ratio at CS Holding was 67.4 percent including depreciation, as against 69 percent a year earlier.
By comparison, SBC had a cost ratio with depreciation of 68.4 percent in the first half of this year and UBS posted 61.5.
Thomas Kalbermatten from UBS Global Research, who had forecast net profit growth higher at 28 percent, said it was positive that commission income now made up 38 percent of all earnings from 36 percent in the same period last year.
"The quality of profits is improving in a way that has become general in the banking sector," he said.
"Compared to other Swiss banks, CS Holding has the greatest potential because it is just starting on reorganisation," he said.
Kalbermatten said potential costs savings and earnings growth had alrady been tapped at least in part by CS's rivals.
UBS has spent several years streamlining its activities and SBC, which last year integrated investment banking arm SBC Warburg, in May announced a reorganisation along four core business lines.
Kalbermattern said he would maintain his estimates for CS Holding 1996 full-year net profit of 1.6 billion or 8.50 Swiss francs earnings per share and for 1997 of 2.07 billion or 10.90 per share. He maintains CS and SBC as buy ratings.
Salomon's Leonard said he would likely lower his EPS estimates from 8.96 Swiss francs this year and 10.40 in 1997. CS Holding would remain a hold alongside SBC and UBS, with SBC favoured.
Bieri at Zurich Cantonal Bank also said he would lower his 1996 full-year forecast for CS Holding from net profit of 1.619 billion and an EPS of 8.40.
Bieri said he would likley downgrade CS Holding from buy to hold. UBS is a hold and SBC a buy in his ratings.
-- Marcus Kabel, Zurich Newsroom, +41-1-631 7340