Australia's largest grocery retailer, Woolworths Ltd, announced on Wednesday it planned to sell imported petrol from its supermarket carparks in coming months, a move set to transform Australia's petroleum industry.
Woolworths said it would spend A$4.5 million to build a petrol station by October at its supermarket in Dubbo, in country New South Wales.
But it said this station would be the first of many and up to 50 percent of its 1,031 stores throughout Australia could have petrol stations in their carparks in the next few years.  
"We announce today that Woolworths will embark upon the retailing of petrol," Woolworths Managing Director Reg Clairs told a news conference in Sydney.
He said Woolworths would await confirmation of petrol market deregulation, foreshadowed last week by the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission (ACCC), before committing finally to the expansion.
But he said Woolworths wanted to be ready when the final green light was given.
Woolworths would market its petrol aggressively, but would not guarantee to undercut its rivals.  
Clairs said shopping centre petrol stations offered customers the opportunity of filling their cars with petrol when they did their shopping and had become an established practice in Britain, France and the United States.
"It's the convenience factor," he said.
Clairs said Woolworths had watched closely the success of Tesco Plc's  petrol retailing operations in Britain.
British supermarkets, which increased their share of the petrol market to 20-25 percent by discounting, as they can cover potential losses on petrol at least in part by added grocery sales created as customers make one stop for all their shopping.  
Woolworth's move is set to provide a major boost to Australia's currently small, but recently active petrol importers.
"Our petrol will be imported," Clairs said.
Independent petrol importers have enjoyed an unexpected boom in sales in recent weeks after a combination of industrial action and refinery closures created a gasoline shortage in the Melbourne area.
Woolworths said the capital expenditure needed to expand into petrol retailing would be funded directly from cashflow.  
Woolworth's petrol drive announcement came as it also announced an expansion of its currently small electronic retailing operation, Dick Smith Electronics.
Clairs said Woolworths had already drawn up plans to build a Dick Smith Electronics Powerhouse in Sydney and would look at building many more if the conditions were right.
He said Woolworths continued to aggressively look for sales growth and extra market share, saying this was the way for Woolworths to rebuild profit growth.  
Earlier on Wednesday Woolworths announced a steady net profit for the 12 months to June 23 to A$233.6 million, well down on previous year's growth rates. A slower economy, higher costs and a higher tax rate eroded sales and then profits.
Clairs said the Australian retail environment remained tough, but that he hoped earnings before tax and interest could be boosted back to the double digit levels of previous years after its drop back to 6.8 percent in 1995/96.
Woolworth's share price closed four cents firmer at A$3.01 on Wednesday.
-- Sydney Newsroom 61-2 373-1800