Australia's largest home lender, Commonwealth Bank of Australia, reported a record annual profit on Wednesday but warned that the outlook was clouded by slowing economic growth, rising bad loans and costs.
Commonwealth, which became fully privatised last month after the Australian government sold its remaining 50.4 percent stake to the public, reported a 13.8 percent rise in net profit to A$1.12 billion for the year ended June 30.
"Although this is a robust result for the year just ended, the outlook for the Commonwealth Bank is increasingly difficult," managing director David Murray told reporters.
"The overall environment for businesses has deteriorated noticeably over the past 12 months, which amounts to a margin and profit squeeze for businesses," he said.
The slowing economy led to a rise in problem loans in the fourth quarter of 1995/96, although the charge for bad or doubtful debts was still at a cyclically low level and down 38 percent for the full year, he said.
"We have noticed a slight upturn in troublesome loans evident in the last quarter of 1995/96," Murray said.
However, Commonwealth was not the only bank to suffer from rising difficult loans, which were mainly in the small business sector, particularly in retail and distribution, Murray said.
Despite the glum outlook, Commonwealth reported higher profits from all of its activities in 1995/96, while keeping costs down and reducing the level of problems loans.
Operating revenue rose 12.6 percent to A$9.07 billion in 1995/96, and total assets grew 16.3 percent to A$109.29 billion.
Shareholders were rewarded with a final dividend of 52 cents a share, compared with 46 cents a year earlier.
Commonwealth, which was known as the 'people's bank' under government ownership, reported profit increases from its funds management arm, the Commonwealth Financial Services, its New Zealand unit ASB Bank Ltd and in its main banking activities.
"These factors combined to help offset the impact of continuing pressure on margins and other income generation," Murray said. The bank has had a squeeze on margins on its home loans, the largest part of its business.
The Australian government first sold part of its holding in the bank in 1991.
Competition in Australia's mortgage market has increased with the entry of non-bank lenders, known as mortgage originators, that have slashed home loan rates and forced major banks to also cut their mortgage rates.
Commonwealth's share of home loan approvals increased in 1995/96, Murray said, but he gave no figures.
Australian banking analysts said 1996/97 was going to be a difficult year for Commonwealth, although the 1995/96 result was at the upper end of expectations.
"The result was better than expected, but 1996/97 is going to be tough. They are going to have to maintain their costs," one Melbourne-based analyst said.
Costs were certainly on Murray's mind.
"Costs in general are becoming more and more difficult to maintain. The wages outcome this year was higher than we had expected," said Murray. He said the rise in the corporate tax rate to 36 percent from 33 percent last year was another cost.
The higher than expected result pushed Commonwealth shares to a close at a six-month high of A$11.35, up 30 cents.
-- Sydney newsroom 61-2 9373 1800