Building materials group Pioneer International Ltd said on Wednesday it was still sniffing out a major purchase more than a year after merging its downstream petroleum business Ampol with Caltex Australia Ltd.
"In terms of medium and larger acquisitions, I would have to say we are pursuing a large number of possibilities at this stage," managing director John Schubert said at a press conference to announce the company's end of year results.
Pioneer has said it has debt funding capabilities of around A$1 billion to fund any acquisition.  
"We have ample gearing capacity - the balance sheet is not an impediment to a sensible large acquisition," said Pioneer's chief finance officer, Robert Elstone.
The company also initiated a programme last year to spend A$750 million of its cashflow over three years expanding its building materials operations.
Earlier, Pioneer said its net profit after preference but before abnormals and in the year to June 30, 1996 rose by A$2 million to A$252.2 million.  
The company said the geographic spread of its building materials operations along with sound earnings from its Ampol joint venture had allowed it to maintain its net earnings.
Pioneer said it faced another tough year with uncertain market conditions, especially in Australia and Europe.
"Significant improvement in profitability will be depend on success in the group's growth initiatives," the company said in a statement accompanying its 1995/96 year results.
Pioneer said its 1995/96 earnings were held back by the poor showing of its Australian building materials business which declined in tandem with Australia's depressed housing sector.  
Schubert said he expected improving housing affordability, higher employment and wages would aid the housing industry.
"My view is we will see a recovery in the first half of (calendar) 1997," he said.
Earnings from the group's U.S. operations would improve in 1996/97, Schubert said. He said the Texas operation was seen maintaining strong performance, with a new cement joint venture in Houston planned to begin operations in October.
"We expect activity in Hong Kong to slow as major infrastructure projects draw near to completion," he said, "But generally, we see good growth prospects in Asia."  
Schubert said the company was satisfied with the performance of its European operations with the exception of Spain, which he said had shown over time time to be very volatile.
The Ampol-Caltex merger had achieved all targets and was now expected to exceed forecast net present value of A$500 million in synergy benefits, Pioneer said.
Ampol's net profit after tax for 1995/96 was A$138.1 million compared to A$23.4 million in the previous corresponding period, which was the first six month period of the merger.  
Pioneer said the substantial increase in profitability was mainly due to asset rationalisation and lower operating costs following the merger.
Pioneer said it expected petrol refiner margins to remain tight during 1996/97 due to strong competition from Asian refineries but saw margin improvements for jet and diesel fuel.
"Offsetting tight margins will be continuing savings from merger synergy benefits and other operating improvements," it said. Schubert said Pioneer was happy with Ampol's Australian market share of about 30 percent for petrol and jet fuel.
-- Sydney newsroom 61-2 373-1800