Grocery retailer Woolworths Ltd said on Wednesday it was confident of growth in earnings before interest and tax (EBIT) in the 1996/96 financial year.
Woolworths said also that expected higher capital expenditure in 1996/97 would not increase debt to equity gearing ratios.  
Woolworths managing director Reg clairs said he was "...confident of an improvement on that result during the current financial year."
He was referring to the 6.8 percent growth in EBIT in the 52 weeks to June 23, which was the first time Woolworths had recorded a single digit growth figure for five years.  
Woolworths Finance Director Ian Gold said net capital expenditure in the current 1996/97 year was likely to be slightly above the net capex figure of about A$400 million in 1995/96, because of planned new stores and a move into petrol retailing from supermarket carparks.
Gold said some market analysts had said Woolworths was under-geared at about 25 percent debt to equity, but Woolworths was satisfied with its current gearing levels and they would not be increased significantly by the higher capital expenditure.
"I don't think that increased capex will seriously affect that (gearing level)," Gold told a news conference.  
Earlier Clairs said Woolworths wanted to continue to improve market share in the grocery and general merchandise sectors, having increased grocery market share in 1995 to 33.4 percent from 32.4 percent in 1994.
"We're intent on growing market share," Clairs said.
He said that higher market share would not necessarily come at the cost of profit growth.
"It won't be totally at the cost of profitability," he said.
"Our intention is to manage that as we've managed over the past 10 years and also to grow profitability at the same time," it said.  
"We will endeavour to improve on that financial result in this current financial year," he said.
"The EBIT growth, the higher the hurdle gets, the more difficult it is  and we've got a substantial number of new developments underway," Clairs he said.
"If we can continue to maintain that EBIT growth and slightly improve it we'd be happy with that result."
Woolworths share price closed up four cents at A$3.01.
-- Sydney Newsroom 61-2 373-1800