Brokers and analysts on Wednesday welcomed news that New Zealand's Brierley Investments expects to dilute its holding in Thistle Hotels as a prelude to total exit from the British group.
However, the news had been well telegraphed and they doubted it would have much immediate impact on BIL's share price.
"It's good news for Brierleys but it's news that everyone has factored in," said one analyst, who declined to be named.  
"The news was generally pretty positive but it is probably built pretty much into the share price already," said JB Were broker Humphrey Sherratt.
"While it might underpin the share price, I wouldn't have thought it was going to propel it sharply higher in the short term unless we have some more concrete news on pricing."
BIL chief executive Paul Collins told a briefing of analysts last month the investment company currently had an "intrinsic" value of NZ$1.35-1.40 per share and local analysts see little up or downside to BIL's current price of $1.41. The stock closed unchanged on Wednesday.  
Analysts said the modest premium in BIL's price reflected its improved flexibility as its financial position strengthened.
Thistle on Tuesday announced it planned to raise 250 million pounds new equity simultaneously with BIL selling down its 70 percent stake to under 50 percent and the Singapore government making a pro-rata selldown of its 30 percent stake.
Thistle has been a millstone around BIL's neck since 1990 when it made a full takeover for the then Mount Charlotte. The Gulf War damaged the British tourism industry and BIL has since unwillingly had nearly half its assets tied up in Thistle.  
Hendry Hay McIntosh Research Director Robert Bode estimated BIL was likely to extract around 200 million pounds from the Thistle selldown, leaving it with a stake of 35-45 percent.
"My initial impression is that they are going to sell down a little bit less than probably the market was otherwise expecting because of Thistle raising 250 million stg in capital," he said.
Analysts said the size of the selldown is complicated by the existence of Thistle's convertible notes. They expect BIL to covert the notes and sell those down.  
"I think ultimately they will want to exit Thistle completely. The question is when they will get most value out of it," said one analyst who declined to be named.
"They will be anticipating that Thistle will be doing very well over the next few years because of all the improved room stock that is coming fully up to speed," he said.
Although severe demands have been placed on the hotel sector in the British market, analysts believed there would be good demand for Thistle because of the company's premium position in the London market.  
"The London market is not coming off. There is no reason to think they are too late," said one.
By cutting its stake to under 50 percent, BIL will no longer have to consolidate Thistle, allowing it to take 488 million pounds of debt off its balance sheet.
Collins told analysts last month that BIL had access to around NZ$750 million in cash.
BIL is expected to inject around NZ$160 million for its 25 percent share in the purchase of Forestry Corp of New Zealand announced on Tuesday. That would leave the company with a war chest of around NZ$1.0 billion, taking into account expected  
proceeds from Thistle, analysts said.
BIL has said previously that Australia and Asia will be the prime targets for any new spending. "They have huge capacity to do a lot more in Australia as it is so I don't think it hugely changes what they are going to do," said one analyst.
-- Wellington newsroom 64 4 4734 746