Petroleum group Caltex Australia Ltd said on Wednesday it expects narrow refiner margins in petrol to prevail over at least the next six to 12 months.
Margins are the difference between what a refiner pays for crude oil and what it is sold for in the form of a petroleum product. The general rule is that the higher the crude price, the lower the refiner margin.
Crude oil prices have been on a firming trend, while petrol (gasoline) prices are being knocked back by plentiful supplies, hence a narrowing of margins.  
Caltex's profits are closely linked to the margins it achieves, and if the trend in crude continues, margins could be squeezed further, said Ian Blackburne, managing director of Ampol Petroleum Pty Ltd, 50-50 owned by Caltex and Pioneer International Ltd.
Earlier on Tuesday, Caltex said its half-year net profit of A$30.31 million was held back in part by higher crude oil costs. Petroleum margins for refiners are only about US$0.76 a barrel currently, Blackburne told a media briefing.
"Petrol is only realising little more than Tapis (Malaysian) crude oil in the Singapore market," Blackburne said.  
Tapis, a light sweet crude widely used to produce petrol, currently fetches over US$20 a barrel.
Blackburne said the margin on Tapis crude was "unusually low," adding he expected a recovery at some point.
"But over the next six to 12 months, our forecasts are that petrol (margins) will continue to be very tight" he said.
There will probably be further improvement in diesel and jet margins, with middle distillates very much in demand, he said.
"But in the aggregate refined margin, you'd be brave to forecast it is going to be higher than the last six months," Blackburne said.  
Blackburne also said Caltex would press the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission to recommend the practice among Australian refiners of exchanging refinery products and joint-terminalling of material to continue when it completes an investigation into deregulation.
"We see refinery exchange as a very pro-competitive arrangement," Blackburne said.
The practice enables Caltex to participate in states other than New South Wales and Queensland, where it does not operate its own refineries, Blackburne said.  
Without a commercially viable way of operating, it would bring into questions, the company's continued participation in these states, he said.
Caltex is owned 75 percent by Caltex Petroleum Corp, which in turn is owned 50/50 by Chevron Corp and Texaco Inc .
-- James Regan 61-2 9373-1800