Building products and petroleum group Pioneer International Ltd said on Wednesday it faced another difficult year due to uncertain economic and market conditions.
"Significant improvement in profitability will be depend on success in the group's growth initiatives," the company said in a statement accompanying its 1995/96 year results.
"The group faces another difficult year with uncertain economic and market conditions, especially in Australia and Europe," it said.  
Pioneer also said it was assessing a wide range of acquisition opportunities, including add-on acquisitions, new country entries and larger acquisitions.
Pioneer was commenting after reporting a nine percent rise in operating profit pre-tax of A$332.5 million for the year to June 30. It also posted a net profit of A$258.3 million, down on the A$413.5 million recorded in 1994/95, which was itself boosted by an abnormal gain of A$140 million.
It posted an unchanged nine final dividend.  
Pioneer said that most of the European economies in which it operated were expected to be under pressure and that volumes could fall further.
It said a highly competitive trading environment was forecast in Australia in 1996/97, given a very depressed level of housing starts.
"The efficiencies achieved through the integration and rationalisation of building products should lead to an improved earnings outlook for these businesses," it said.
"The company is more optimistic about growth of non-residential construction in Australia," it said.  
"There are also early indications that selling prices for building materials and products are firming in some of the group's Australian markets."
Pioneer said it expected the group's U.S. operations to further improve their results in 1996/97.
The Texas operation was expected to maintain strong performance, with a new joint venture cement terminal in Houston planned to begin operations in October 1996.
Pittsburgh sand and gravel assets recently acquired were expected to improve results from Pioneer's Davison operations.  
"Some slowing of activity is forecast for Hong Kong," Pioneer said, adding however, that it was confident the changeover to Chinese rule in June 1997 would be smooth.
"Some easing of monetary conditions is expected in China during 1996/97, with a positive impact on group results during 1997/98," it said.
Pioneer's refining and marketing operations were expected to remain competitive during 1996/97, with refining margins forecast to remain tight.  
"Offsetting these tight margins will be continuing savings from merger synergy benefits and other operating improvements," it said.
Pioneer's share price was down one cent at A$3.72 at 12.30 p.m. (0230 GMT).
-- Sydney Newsroom 61-2 373-1800