Natural Gas Corp chief executive Richard Bentley on Wednesday said his prediction that reticulated gas sales would rise from 43 to 70 petajoules annually in the next seven to 10 years was based on several expectations, among them the emergence of new gas exploration.
Addressing a briefing of analysts and journalists following NGC's announcement of a NZ$28.0 million annual profit, up from $22.2 million, Bentley said his confidence in future growth potential was qualified by some "important assumptions".
"Firstly, that the wholesale market for both spot and term contract electricity develops in an orderly manner."  
Bentley said he looked forward to the commencement of the new electricity wholesale regime on October 1 this year. He said his growth prediction was based primarily, but was not limited to, electricity generation projects.
NGC expects the commissioning of the Southdown power plant in Auckland and a cogeneration plant at Edgecumbe to add "substantially" to its gas sales in 1996/97.
Bentley said his second assumption was that wholesale gas prices would remain near current levels in real terms.
"That is the case at present," he said.  
"The third assumption is that these prices will ensure there is sufficient gas to service anticipated growth."
On his growth projections, Bentley said new gas would be needed early in the new millennium, but he had a positive outlook on future gas supplies.
"While there may have been no significant developments in the past two years, the potential for new gas discoveries during the next five years has been enhanced by the recent block awards, and exploration momentum is slowly building," Bentley said.  
"This country has important attractions for explorers, such as economic and political stability, a modern, mature gas processing and delivery infrastructure, and importantly a growing market that needs new gas and can sustain prices at a level required to develop a medium sized discovery."
Bentley said the fourth assumption on which he based his growth forecast was that pipeline capacity was available, "which it is".
"And finally, that there is acceptance of long term contracts, supported by a robust and enduring legal framework.  
"These are necessary, in my view, for the risk sharing needed for the privately-funded, multi-million dollar investments in New Zealand's energy future," Bentley said.
--Wellington Newsroom (64 4) 4734746