The plight of South Korea's home builder Kun Young Construction, seeking court receivership under a pile of debt, signals a further shakeout in the country's construction industry, analysts said on Wednesday.
"Bubbles in the housing industry are bursting so quickly while many contractors are unprepared," said Park Chan-ik, an analyst at Hyundai Securities.
"A downsizing of the industry looks inevitable."
He said many construction firms might be forced to shut down over the next few years unless they shifted to other business lines such as civil engineering, which had good prospects for growth on rising infrastructure investment.
"Some have already begun laying off workers. Others are selling off land for construction or pulling out of the housing sector," Park said.
A construction boom in the late 1980s and early 1990s, sparked by the government's plan to provide two million homes, mostly apartments, more than tripled the number of contractors to 3,000 in the past five years.  
After most of those apartments were completed, demand for new homes fell rapidly and many builders began suffering from falling profits.
Analysts said Kun Young, the nation's 21st largest contractor, was particularily vulnerable because of its over-expansion. It had to offer various perks to win redevelopment projects, a practice that also squeezed Woosung Construction out of business in January.
Woosung was taken over by the Hanil Group.
Kun Young now has more than 400 billion won ($489 million) stuck in construction of 14,000 apartments nationwide.
The company was dragged into many of the projects as it had to cover costs on fixed investment. But interest payments piled up while sales plummeted.
Kun Young defaulted on 1.26 billion won worth of promissory notes on Monday. It avoided bankruptcy by paying the debt by Tuesday, but filed for court receivership seeking protection from its creditors.
The company was near an agreement on Tuesday on a takeover by a consortium led by unlisted Dongsung Construction Co Ltd.  
But its prime lender, SEOULBANK, rejected the deal, casting doubt on Dongsung's ability to write off Kun Young's debts.
"We want a new owner who can fully cover all Kun Young's liabilities," said a official at the bank. "We are willing to endorse Kun Young's plan to seek court receivership rather than letting the company go bust."
He said bankruptcy was unthinkable because of severe damage to Kun Young's sub-contractors and customers.
SEOULBANK was expected to take over the management of Kun Young when the application was approved by the court until a buyer was found, he said.
Court receivership would spark hot competition for Kun Young because it would freeze all Kun Young's assets and debts, analysts said.
"One good thing about Kun Young is that it has more assets than debts," said a broker at Daishin Securities.
Kun Young's current liabilities amount to 550 billion won while assets are 800 billion won.
Analysts said the problems in the industry would linger as long as failing companies were not allowed to sink.  
"The tradition of bailing out failing companies impedes efficient allocation of funds," said Lee Hahn-ku, president of Daewoo Research Institute. "Such a policy does not fit the economy which is opening rapidly to foreign competition."