Red chip China Overseas Land and Investment Ltd is gearing up for major expansion, having raised funds three times in six months and fixed its eyes on lucrative infrastructure opportunities in China.
The company plans to make a new investment every three months or so, Sam Y.L. Kwok, director and deputy general manager of the company, said in an interview with Reuters.
"There will be a gradual shift to China infrastructure," Kwok said.
The company, whose earnings base is weighted 70-30 in Hong Kong and China property and construction projects, is looking at acquiring two highway construction projects in northern China.
"But nothing has been finalised yet," Kwok said.
The company's most recent fundraising was the placement of 390 million shares in July, which netted approximately HK$763 million after expenses.
In June, the company borrowed US$60 million in a term loan from a banking syndicate led by Hang Seng Bank Ltd..
The company said these funds were to be invested in infrastructure projects and for general working capital.  
In March, Harvest Sun, a consortium in which the group holds a 10 percent stake, raised HK$5.57 billion in a syndicated loan to fund the first phase of the Tai Kok Tsui station development.
Following this investment and the capital raising efforts, the company's gearing ratio stood at about 25 percent to 30 percent of total assets, Kwok said.
More funding will be required for the second phase of the project.
Another similarly structured consortium won the tender to handle the second phase of construction of the Tai Kok Tsui station development in early August.
Sino Land, the lead manager of this group, has the responsibility for arranging the financing for this project, roughly estimated to require HK$15 billion, said Kwok.
Sino Land will hold 40 percent of this second project, Kerry 30 percent, Bank of China Group Investment 20 percent and China Overseas 10 percent.
China Overseas' share of the total development cost will again be 10 percent of whatever financing is arranged.  
The red chip property and construction company, which was listed in August 1992 on the back of the great upswing in the Hong Kong and China property markets, has been a play on the Hong Kong property market.
The company is actively seeking absolute growth in both its China and Hong Kong operations, said Kwok.
The company is a subsidiary of China State Construction and Engineering Corp, the largest state-owned construction conglomerate. It is directly under the leadership of the Ministry of Construction.
Possibly the only worrying element in the company's background is the need for China Overseas to follow its parent's and Beijing's macroeconomic dictates, stock analysts said.
In 1996, the emphasis is on cash-rich state enterprises acquiring and rejuvenating failing or bankrupt state enterprises, profitable coastal operations bolstering weak businesses in the hinterland.
China Overseas seeks to rise to the task.
Company chairman Sun Wen-jie, speaking at the company's annual general meeting in June, said the company was negotiating with some mainland parties to acquire several manufacturing projects including a cement manufacturing plant.