This is Reuters' 14th ex-Amsterdam air cargo market report. It will be issued regularly until an updated version is published at a later date.
Below are the current average ex-Amsterdam Dutch guilder air cargo rates per kg for 100 kg shipment with a voulme-to-weight ratio of six-to-one.
				 August 9	   vs	  July 11
			    UNITED STATES
AMS-JFK			 1.05			    1.10
AMS-LAX			 1.85			    1.95
AMS-CHI			 1.25			    1.25
			    ASIA-PACIFIC
AMS-HKG			 2.45			    2.40
AMS-SIN			 2.20			    2.10
AMS-NRT			 4.10			    4.10
AMS-TPE			 2.50			    2.45
AMS-SEL			 3.60			    3.60
AMS-KUL			 2.50			    2.40
			    MIDDLE EAST
AMS-DXB			 1.55			    1.60
AMS-BAH			 2.10			    2.10
AMS-MCT			 2.50			    2.55
AMS-AUH			 1.85			    1.90
			    LATIN AMERICA
AMS-MEX			 3.65			    3.60
AMS-BOG			 3.50			    3.50
AMS-SCL (CHILE)	     5.45			    5.40
AMS-RIO			 5.00			    5.00
			    AFRICA
AMS-JNB			 3.70			    3.75
AMS-NBO			 2.35			    2.40
* The rates quoted in the report were obtained by Reuter journalists on a confidential basis from a range of airlines, forwarders and smaller air cargo agents.
* All tariffs are quoted airlines.
* The tariffs represent average rates calculated from a range of prices and indicative of current market activity. Ex-Amsterdam Asian boom continues, perishables lift U.S.
By Helen Hill
Amsterdam, Aug 9 (Reuter) - In the Netherlands the traditional summer holiday slump does not seem to have had its usual impact on the air cargo market, with most carriers reporting an unusually busy August so far.
Asian carriers, based in the Netherlands, are having an especially hectic time.
A Malaysia Airlines cargo executive, Frans Meeuwes, said: "We have not had the usual slow-down period because of the summer holidays. All the carriers seem to be flying full, it is not just MAS." Yields also seem to be creeping up.
Other carriers backed this comment up, Pim de Goederen, Japan Airlines cargo director in Amsterdam, described the Dutch-Japanese market as "tremendous". Currently, he added, JAL is flying full of flower bulbs destined for the Japanese market.
Japan re-opened its doors to Dutch bulbs on August 1. More than 1,500 tonnes of Dutch bulbs are being shipped monthly by the Japanese carrier on its McDonnell Douglas MD-11 service.
Vegetables destined to Japan are another strong market, said de Goederen. Paprikas are especially in demand and this has increased this year, he added.
"Flowers are not in the volumes they once were because the Japanese can now import more cheaply from South America or South Africa," he said.
Imports from Japan are increasing slightly, though the strength of the yen deters Dutch buyers, he added. This leaves the carrier with a heavy traffic imbalance.
Although JAL would like more capacity outbound from the Netherlands, the traffic imbalance makes the possible introduction of more capacity unlikely, said de Goederen.
Korean Air's cargo manager, Mike Zimmerman, said: "Currently Korean Air is very busy, mainly with perishables destined for the Japanese market."
Koreans have not been quite as keen as the Japanese on Dutch flowers and bulbs but there is an increasing interest, he said.
Korean Air operates to 12 Japanese destinations on a daily basis from Seoul. Rates to Korea and Japan are remaining firm at 4.10 Dutch guilders and 3.60 respectively.
Forwarders too, are happy with business to Asia. Emery Worldwide's Benelux general manager, Koos van Velzen, said business to destinations such as Taiwan, Korea, Japan and Malaysia, was performing very well.
Jos van de Woensel, managing director of Zygene, general sales agent for Vietnam Airlines in the Netherlands, said Vietnam will take several years to develop but the Dutch-Vietnam market offers good potential.
Machine tools, construction equipment and semi-finished garments are amongst current exports to Vietnam. Goods are completed in Vietnam and then flown back to Europe.
Even the U.S. market, usually one dogged by over-capacity and low rates, is seeing a slight upturn. However, rates remain low and the surge in traffic is largely due to the Dutch perishables market.
Carriers seem to be able to get relatively healthy rates to the U.S. as long as they are carrying perishables.
One forwarder said the passenger business has led to more rates pressure on the U.S. west coast as well which means it is possible to get rates below 1.95 Dutch guilders. New York remains low and rates of one guilder are not unknown.
United Airline's European cargo sales manager, Peter Chase, said July and August are proving very busy as the American market clamours for Dutch vegetables and flowers.
John Smith, European cargo manager with American Airlines, traffic out of the Netherlands to the U.S. had increased on last year's volumes which is again due to the perishables market.
Last year a drought in the Dutch market meant Dutch produce growers had to pump huge volumes of water into their crops which pushed up the price. The U.S. could then buy vegetables such as tomatoes cheaper elsewhere, he said.
"We have been consistently full and have an average load factor of 84 per cent throughout Europe," said Smith. For this reason American will be increasing its tariffs from September 1.
However, if companies were not involved so heavily in the perishables market,the Dutch-U.S. picture is not quite so good. Several said rates are still under a lot of pressure and some are definitely on the decline.
Many U.S. computer manufacturers are expected to launch new models into Europe in the fourth quarter. Forwarders are hopeful that this will boost trade again.
Onno Wiersma of Air Cargo Trader gsa for Emirates Airline representative in the Netherlands, commented that capacity that available for Dutch cargo to the Middle East is full.Overflow cargo is being diverted to Emirates aircraft in London and Frankfurt, he said.
Emirates and KLM operate a three-times-a-week Boeing 747-200 freighter from Amsterdam to Dubai. Perishables, machinery spares, medical supplies and printed matter are the main exports ex-Amsterdam.
Van Velzen of Emery said the Middle East market was being affected by the summer season but the company has recently sent a European representative to the Middle East and is looking forward to more business from the region.
Latin America is not generating as much excitement as it did a few weeks ago. Cargo manager of Varig Brazilian Airlines, Dirk Hazenoot, said the market was "stable not crazy".
"We expected the market to drop off in line with the European holiday season but it continued and even seems to be increasing."
He could not pinpoint the exact reason for it but added that there had been some changes in the South American import rules and the car industry ex-Brazil was also doing well.
Rates are stable and were not showing any signs of declining at the moment, said Hazenoot. On average rates to Rio are five Dutch guilders and it is expected to stay at that level.
Air Cargo Trader director, Wiersma, who as well as representing Emirates is gsa for Aero Mexico, Aero Peru and Fast Air, in the Latin American market said the market is currently stable, as are the rates.
"Mexico has stabilised again after the problems with its economy. Machinery and automotive parts make up the bulk of the moves."
Wiersma added that he hopes to develop an interline agreement between Aero Mexico and Emirates to improve connections from the Middle East to Mexico.
Van de Woensel of Zygene, gsa for Air Gabon said South African rates are under pressure and he fears that this will get worse when Martinair launches its freighter into the market.
Air Gabon's business is very seasonal although there is some airfreight being moved for the oil industry, he said.
Martinair has just been given the green light by the Dutch and South African civil aviation authorities for a freighter service to Johannesburg. Market sources say it is likely to start in October or November using an MD-11 freighter.
In Amsterdam, some industry insiders are worried about the impact that Martinair and Virgin, both having announced plans to go to South Africa in the autumn, will have on the rates.
A LOT spokesman said intra-European airfreight continues despite predictions that airfreight cannot compete with roadfreight. He said safety and speed are key issues.
"Many of the multinationals prefer to have their cargo delivered to a modern, bonded warehouse at the airport rather than see it trucked into central Warsaw. Trucks can sometimes wait for 48 hours at the German/Polish border and it is often safer to send cargo by airfreight." --Air Cargo Newsroom Tel +44 171 542 7706 Fax +44 171 542 5017