Dutch financial services giant International Nederlanden Groep NV (ING) posted a 28 percent increase in half-year net profit on Thursday as more buoyant financial markets enhanced results from banking.
But ING warned that earnings growth would slow in the second half of the year and it frustrated analysts by providing scant details on Barings, the British merchant bank ING bought last year after it collapsed under the weight of losses incurred by rogue futures trader Nick Leeson.
ING said net profit in the six months to June 30 was 1.51 billion guilders ($907 million), up from 1.18 million a year earlier.
Although the result was in line with expectations, the group's shares dipped as investors realised profits from the strong rise in the price since mid-July.
The interim dividend rose to 0.83 guilders per share from 0.75 a year earlier.
Pre-tax insurance profits climbed 16.8 percent to 1.16 billion guilders in the first half while first-half pre-tax banking profit jumped 39.2 percent to 1.02 billion.
ING said life premium income showed moderate growth as a fall in premium income in North America offset the distinct increase in the Netherlands, Japan and Australia.
It said the acquisition of Wellington Insurance Company in Canada and growth in Australia were the main contributors to the considerable growth in non-life income.
Banking earnings were boosted by sharply higher commission and securities trading income as a result of favourable market conditions and a recovery from emerging markets losses in 1995 caused by the Mexican currency crisis.
But the group warned that profits would not grow as fast in the second half.
"It is not to be expected that the percentage increase in group profit for the first half of 1996 will be equalled in the second half of 1996," it said.
Despite an increase in the number of shares on issue, ING said it expected earnings per share for the whole of 1996 to be higher than in 1995.
ING also said the Barings acquisition lifted first half commission and trading income and operating costs but did not separately report the British merchant bank's results because it was now integrated into ING's investing banking unit.
This decision was questioned by analysts who were eagerly waiting more details on the performance of Barings, which ING bought for 1.7 billion guilders in March 1995 after it collapsed under huge fraudulent trading losses.
"I'm keen to hear from ING about what happened to Barings," said Ton Gietman of Van Meer James Capel, adding the British unit had been expected to make a profit.
Kempen and Co analyst Hans Pluijgers said he was disappointed ING had not given more indication of whether Barings was making a positive contribution to group profits.
"I think that's a bit odd," he said, adding it may be an indication that Barings was not performing as well as expected.
The result was in the middle of the range of analysts' forecasts of 1.46 to 1.56 billion guilders, but on the Amsterdam bourse ING shares slipped 2.00 guilders to a low of 52.20 before recovering to 53.20 at 1230 GMT.
ING's Dutch banking rival, ABN AMRO, last week announced a 36 percent lift in half-year net profit to 1.70 billion guilders, also helped by surging financial markets.