The West of England marine insurance protection and indemnity (P&I) club has steered away from a possible confrontation over the cost of the P&I International Group's annual reinsurance bill.
"I've got no comment on numbers. It's easy to underwrite retrospectively," Peter Spendlove, managing director of West of England Ship Owners Insurance Services Ltd, told a news conference at the launch of the club's annual report.
On Monday the London club, one of 14 mutual marine insurance clubs making up the International Group, said it was looking for a substantial cut in the P&I clubs' annual $330 million reinsurance contract.
Spendlove noted that, although claims had been below premiums paid in recent years -- making the P&I account very attractive to reinsurers -- this had not always been the case.
"I remember very well when we were negotiating the renewal of the group policy for 1992/93, it was hard to get the policy fully subscribed."
The claims record had to be taken into account when renewing the International Group's reinsurance contract, but Spendlove said it was too early to speculate about rates this far ahead of its renewal in February.
Marine insurance rates are still generally falling, but some P&I market sources believe this trend will soon be reversed in the face of rising claims costs.
Insurance broker Sedgwick said in a recent report that rates now being offered to new business were frequently uneconomic.
On the question of agreeing a new maximum limit for club cover, Spendlove said he expected that a consensus would eventually be reached to reduce the limit from the current compromise of $20 billion.
However, he emphasised that there must be broad agreement on the new limit within the International Group's mutual framework.
"We are committed to a lower limit, but we are also committed to the integrity of the system."
Spendlove said the revised limit would probably be in the area of $2-3 billion, which was the level favoured by a majority of West of England members in a recent survey.
In its annual report, the West of England club said total free reserves at February 20 stood at $84 million versus $57 million a year earlier.
Net assets advanced to $460 million from $400 million.
Total tonnage insured by the club was up five percent at 47.6 million gross tonnes.
-- John Sanders, Reuters Insurance News 44 171 542 2769