National Grid, which runs the English and Welsh high voltage electricity transmission system, called on its one million investors to help convince electricity regulator Stephen Littlechild to moderate his price review.
Following gas regulator Clare Spottiswoode's concessions to British Gas on Wednesday after a consultation period, the Grid said shareholders now had a chance to officially object to plans that could wipe up to 1.2 billion stg off revenues.
"It's (Spottiswoode's final proposals) a confirmation that it is well worthwhile for everybody to argue their point of view," a company spokesman told Reuters.  
Littlechild is proposing a one-off cut in prices in April 1997 of 20-26 percent, followed by a further four percent reduction in each of the following three years.
The Grid says the proposals announced last week will hit the revenues by 1-1.2 billion pounds over the four-year period and it reiterated its warning in an open letter on Thursday that the plans were against shareholders' interests.
"(They) will adversely effect our ability to grow dividends at a satisfactory rate," the Grid stated in a statement.  
The company, which says its own efficiency programme over the period would mean the loss of around 500 jobs, said that "obviously" job losses would increase with harsh price curbs.
The company argues the the proposals go against the spirit of "incentive regulation". The Grid said it has already cut costs by 40 percent since 1991 and does not believe there are comparable opportunities for cost reductions in the future.
Another point of contention is how Littlechild has valued its assets. Littlechild proposes to set the asset value by using the group's share price on the day of its listing.  
But shares have sunk from a high of 209 pence to 174 pence, and the company says the regulator's interpretation reduces the transmission asset value by over one billion stg, thereby reducing National Grid's income which is based on that value.
"Of course we want customers to have lower bills," wrote chairman David Jefferies in the open letter to shareholders.
"However, we believe the balance in the regulator's current proposals is tilted against your interests..."
The Grid has until September 10 to argue its case.
-- Kirstin Ridley, London Newsroom +44 171 542 4017