Gruma SA de CV and Archer Daniels Midland Co said Thursday they agreed to form joint ventures in the U.S. corn flour and Mexican wheat flour markets.
Under the deal, Gruma will receive $258 million, and Archer Daniels will get 74.7 million new Gruma shares, representing a 22 percent stake in Gruma.
The following is the text of the companies' statement, released in New York.
--------------------PRESS RELEASE-------------------
MONTERREY, Mexico, and DECATUR, Ill. -- Gruma SA de CV, the world's largest producer and marketer of corn flour and tortillas, and Archer Daniels Midland Company, one of the world's largest agribusiness companies, today announced a definitive agreement which will significantly strengthen Gruma's capital structure; increase the capacity and efficiency of Gruma's United States corn flour operation; create a new competitive venture in the $1.5 billion Mexican wheat flour market; and position ADM to participate in the long-term growth potential of Gruma and its markets.
Following the transaction, Gruma's expected market capitalization will be the largest of any food company based in Mexico.
The strategic partnership combines Gruma's superior corn flour production technology and operational expertise with ADM's logistical resources, leading wheat flour production technology and financial strength.
Under the terms of the agreement, Gruma will receive $258 million; an 80% share in the combined U.S. corn flour operations of ADM and Gruma; access to ADM's U.S. corn purchasing, handling and transportation network; a 60% share in a joint venture consisting of ADM's wheat milling technology and Mexican-based wheat flour mills; and exclusivity in certain corn flour and wheat flour markets.
Gruma will manage and operate both the corn flour operations and the Mexican wheat milling operations.
Gruma's other subsidiaries, including Gimsa, and its Central American division will not be altered by this transaction.
In return, ADM will receive 74.7 million new shares, which will represent 22% of Gruma common stock, two positions on the eleven member Gruma board, and the minority ownership positions in the U.S. corn flour and Mexican wheat flour operations.
Savings in interest expense resulting from the transaction is expected to more than offset the effect of dilution in earnings per share.
The transaction is expected to close by the end of September, subject to Gruma shareholder approval and final approvals by the Comision Federal de Competencia (Mexican antitrust commission) and other Mexican and United States regulatory bodies.
Following the completion of the transaction, the Gruma and ADM joint ventures will represent approximately 25% of the $660 million corn flour and corn dough market, and will be a significant competitor in the $1.5 billion Mexican wheat flour market.
In addition,  Gruma will use the $258 million it receives to repay debt and to increase cash reserves, thereby saving approximately $30 million in annual interest expense and reducing its debt-to-equity ratio from 1.39 to approximately 0.61.
Dwayne O. Andreas, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Archer Daniels Midland Company, stated, "This partnership helps ADM accomplish two important objectives.  As a long-time participant in the Mexican marketplace, we are very confident about Mexico's future and believe long-term investment in Mexico provides a very attractive growth opportunity."
"We also know the corn flour industry quite well, are very enthusiastic about its growth potential, and have thoroughly reviewed the alternative strategies for expanding into the corn flour industry."
"Gruma has state-of-the-art corn flour production technology, superb operational expertise, and highly professional management. Partnering with Gruma is an ideal way for ADM to participate in the long-term growth of the Mexican economy and the North American corn flour industry," Mr. Andreas concluded.
Dr. Eduardo Livas, Chief Executive Officer of Gruma, stated, "The financial and strategic benefits of this partnership significantly strengthen Gruma's growth potential. In the fast-growing U.S. corn flour market, the addition of ADM's corn flour mills to our U.S. subsidiary's mills increases our production capacity by 40 percent.  We also expect to increase operational efficiency by applying Gruma's technology to ADM's corn flour mills and by utilizing ADM's corn purchasing, handling and transportation network."
"In addition, Gruma gains immediate entry into the Mexican wheat flour market.  Like the traditional corn milling market that Gruma has revolutioned for nearly fifty years, the market for wheat flour in Mexico is highly fragmented and inefficient. By adding ADM's state-of- the-art production technology and current market position to our existing operating infrastructure, we believe Gruma will be as efficient in wheat flour as it is in corn flour."
"This partnership builds upon the core strengths of both companies -- leading positions in high growth markets, superior technology and manufacturing bases, and a focus on production and distribution systems -- that allow us to sustain a dynamic growth rate.  We are very pleased to have ADM as a long-term strategic partner, and we are looking forward to a mutually rewarding relationship," Dr. Livas concluded.
The combined U.S. corn flour operation of Gruma and ADM had revenues for the last twelve months of more than $180 million and total capacity of 515,000 metric tons per year.
Estimated to be growing 5% per year, the potential U.S. corn flour market consists of the markets for traditional milled corn as well as corn flour. ADM's Mexican wheat flour operation has total capacity of 250,000 metric tons per year.
Longer term, as Gruma expands its operations outside of Mexico, the partnership provides for Gruma to have access to ADM's global plant facilities and product distribution network in Europe, Canada and Asia.
Archer Daniels Midland Company produces, processes, transports and exports agricultural products worldwide.
Founded in 1949, Gruma is the world's largest producer and marketer of corn flour and tortillas, with subsidiaries in Mexico, the United States and Central America.
Gruma had 1995 revenues of 8.8 billion Mexican pesos, and first-half 1996 revenues of 5.2 billion Mexican pesos.  Its 67%-owned Mexican subsidiary, Grupo Industrial Maseca accounts for approximately half of Gruma's revenues.