John Fields' strategy is simple: Find stocks that are out of favor and underpriced, with potential for earnings growth.
The portfolio manager of Delaware Group Decatur Total Return Fund starts with a look at the yield. "It's a dividend yield driven investment style," Fields said. "We can't buy or hold a stock that does not have a dividend yield greater than the S&P 500." The yield for the S&P 500 is about 2.21 percent.  
Fields said the strategy, which has been in use since 1957, forces him to focus on stocks that are either out of favor or off most investors' radar screens.
Under the second criteria, the $635 million fund seeks stocks that pack earnings power. "We're looking for earnings surprises," Fields said, "something a little better than the market expects."
The stocks are "ones that anyone would be proud to own over time. They're not broken-down companies," Fields said.
He cited Pitney Bowes Inc, one of the fund's top picks, currently yielding about 2.89 percent.  
"It usually does not have a yield superior to the S&P," he said. "The only thing we can find (to explain it) is the boredom factor. Does mailroom automation turn you on?
"It's a fine company, with above-average returns, and it just kind of drifted off the radar screen," he said, adding that he sees it generating double-digit earnings, revenue and dividend growth.
Among sectors, Fields is currently focused on banking stocks, which he sees as "the growth story in the market," and the pharmaceutical sector, which has above-average yields and healthy earnings growth.  
The fund's top holding is DuPont Co, about 2.8 percent of the portfolio. Other big picks include Philip Morris Cos Inc, McGraw-Hill Cos Inc, Union Pacific Corp, SmithKline Beecham, British Petroleum Co Plc, Mobil Corp, Pharmacia & Upjohn Inc, Bristol-Myers Squibb Co, and May Department, Stores Co.
Fields said in recent weeks the fund added Philip Morris, under some pressure in recent weeks due to investor concern over tobacco litigation, May, Pitney and DuPont. The fund recently sold British Petroleum and U.S. Bancorp.  
Fields doesn't place big bets, crafting a portfolio with about 70 stocks, none more than three percent of total assets.
Currently common stocks make up 98 percent of the fund, convertible issues 1 percent, and cash one percent. That breakdown has barely changed in the last six months. The fund is usually fully invested, Fields said.
According to Lipper Analytical Services, the fund's return year to date is 6.91 percent versus 6.78 percent for the average income fund. For 1995, it returned 30.51 percent versus 30.21 average for the group, and over five years, 13.77 percent versus 12.8 percent.
-- jeff.benkoe@reuters.com. 212-859-1700