Delays to the German grain and oilseeds harvests would have a knock-on effect on winter plantings, which usually start being planned at the end of August, traders and farm official said on Tuesday.
"If the seeds aren't ready, farmers will have to wait and this will make their life more difficult in the autumn," a farm ministry official in Bonn said.
"The delays are not critical but they will shorten the winter vegetation period and divert attention from marketing discussions to more hectic field work."
Showers continue to disrupt the grain harvest, which is now in its final stages across the country.
National met office DWD forecast mixed weather, but less rain, than over the last week in the period to August 29.
Volumes and qualities have not suffered much from the latest disruptions but farmers had to pay drying costs which will add to the final grain price, traders said.
Farm co-op organisation DRV in a publication today forecast a 40-41 million tonne crop which would exceed last year's 39.9.
DRV said the area was five percent higher but yields would not reach last year's average 6.1 tonnes per hectare due to the severe winter and drought in the spring.
Traders said Hagberg falling numbers and protein contents in wheat, which accounts for 45 percent of the harvest area, differed widely.
These measure different sets of baking qualities, which should be still better than in other EU countries, but are expected to lag last year's results.
South and southwestern German wheat quality was most hit by rains in August and French material from an earlier and exceptionally good harvest was pressurising markets.
But farmgate price reductions in Germany were expected to make domestic grain competitive versus France later on, especially when the precise baking quality is established.
But France would compete with Germany in typical export markets such as Italy and the Benelux, where cheap British supplies were also making inroads, the traders said.
-- Vera Eckert, Hamburg newsroom, +49-40-41903275