Financial services group Internationale Nederlanden Groep NV's (ING) interim results received a mixed response from analysts with some questioning the decision not to provide separate figures on Barings.
ING earlier reported a 28 percent increase in half-year net profit to 1.51 billion guilders, midway through the range of forecasts between 1.46 billion and 1.56 billion.
ING said it was no longer possible to report directly the effect on its results of Barings, the British merchant bank bought last year, as all of Barings' activities had now been integrated into the ING Barings business unit.  
"I'm keen to hear from ING about what happened to Barings. We would have expected Barings to have finally come through," said Ton Gietman of Van Meer James Capel.
He said ING would have included a full six months' contribution from the British merchant bank, which collapsed after losses on fraudulent derivatives trading, compared with only three months in the first half of 1995.
He also said ING's 11 percent growth in banking profits in the second quarter was disappointing when compared with the performance of other European banks, including its Dutch rival ABN AMRO.  
Kempen and Co analyst Hans Pluijgers said he was disappointed ING had not given more indication of whether Barings was making a positive contribution to group profits.
"I think that's a bit odd," adding that it may be an indication that Barings was not performing as well as expected.
He also wanted to know how much the acquisition contributed to the 157 percent surge in interim trading income, although he believed much of it came from ING's other operations.
Pluijgers attributed the fall in ING's share price after the result to profit-taking as the shares had run up to about 55 guilders earlier this week from 45 guilders in mid-July.  
Heinie Hakker of BZW Nederland found the share sell-off difficult to explain and believed the second quarter growth in profits to be very respectable.
"There's good progress on the life (insurance) side and banking is doing very well against a difficult comparison base," he said.
Hakker also said ING's statement that it could not provide separate Barings figures was understable.
But he added: "Everybody is focussing on what Barings is doing. I think there's too much focus."
-- Garry West, Amsterdam newsroom +31 20 504 5000