Trade in shares in Banco de Fomento & Exterior was suspended on Thursday after the Finance Ministry called a news conference about its privatisation.
The ministry may announce at the conference, set for 1300 GMT, which of three competing Portuguese financial groups will be awarded the state's 65 percent stake.
However, it was not certain that a clear-cut winner would have emerged yet from the complex bidding process, banking analysts said.
The shares were suspended on the Lisbon bourse by the Financial Markets Committee at 2,545 escudos, which would value the state stake at around 130 billion escudos ($850 million).
The ministry should announce the results of a report by a special jury set up to evaluate bids by rivals Banco Portugues de Investimento (BPI), Portugal's fifth largest bank, Banco Finantia and Banco Nacional de Credito Imobiliario (BNC).
Banco Finantia is allied to Swiss Bank Corp in the bid, while BNC is controlled by cork magnate Americo Amorim.
The jury was to study the proposals on the basis of the candidates' experience in the banking sector, synergies with existing operations and the promotion of competition within the Portuguese banking sector.
If all three proposals pass at the jury stage, the final decision will rest solely on price.
But to win outright, one of the offers must be 10 percent higher than the others. Otherwise the battle moves to the floor of the Lisbon bourse, where the candidates will bid directly against each other for the stake.
The winner will also have to underwrite the proposed sale of a further 3.5 percent to small investors and employees and eventually to launch a public offer to buy (OPA) on the remaining stock quoted on the market, all at the same price.
The sale of BFE is the second major privatisation carried out by the Socialist government since it took office last November.
The government, which intends to raise around $2.5 billion from privatisations this year, earned some 140 billion escudos from the sale of a 22 percent stake in Portugal Telecom in June. ($1=152.4 escudos)