Mattel Inc. Thursday promoted President Jill Barad to the post of chief executive officer, effective Jan. 1, making her one of only two female chief executives among the Fortune 500 companies.
"I find it sad. I wish there were more women (CEOs) who were on the list of Fortune 500 companies," Barad, 45, said in an interview.
The other female chief executive is Marion Sandler, who heads California thrift Golden West Financial Corp.
Barad was named president and chief operating officer of Mattel in 1992. She joined Mattel in 1981 as a product manager and was named marketing director for the Barbie brand in 1982, an appointment that earned her superstar status.
When Barad was appointed marketing director for Barbie, the doll's annual sales were only $235 million. Barad refashioned the doll into a versatile career woman, with 100 different versions, which fuelled the toy's popularity. Last year, Barbie's sales hit $1.5 billion.
Barad noted that Barbie sales this year remain strong. "Over-the-counter sales of Barbie are up 22 percent in the U.S. year-over-year," she said, noting that total global sales will exceed last year's levels.
As CEO, Barad succeeds John Amerman, who will remain chairman. The move had been widely expected as Barad has assumed more responsibility for running the $2.6 billion company.
"Jill Barad has contributed so much to our success during her 15 years with Mattel, and particularly during the four years she has served as my partner in running this company," Amerman said in a statement.
"She has proven herself to be an excellent leader, marketer and manager. I have total confidence in Jill and know she will be an outstanding CEO," he said.
Barad said Mattel was an exception in the toy industry, which like other industries, is still predominantly male-dominated in higher management ranks.
"It's wonderful to be in an an environment in which you can be rewarded, no matter what your gender is," she said. "I wish that for all people."
Barad's appointment comes as Mattel is shuffling its executive ranks. Earlier this month Mattel named Sony Corp. executive Bruce Stein as president of Mattel Worldwide as part of a realignment of top managers reporting to Barad.
Barad said Mattel, despite its failed attempt earlier this year to take over competitor Hasbro Inc., was open to acquisitions.
"If another acquisition came along and made sense and would give us a sustainable core brand ... we'd absolutely go for it," she said. Barad would not say if Mattel was in talks with any company.
For the 1996 second quarter Mattel reported net income of $66.3 million on revenues of $777.4 million, vs. earnings of $67.5 million on revenues of $763.5 million a year earlier.
But Barad said Mattel would meet forecasts for its profits to grow by 15 percent in 1996, and said sales of Disney-related toys this year will top its 1995 total of $450 million.