Canada's largest department store chain, Hudson's Bay Co., Thursday reported a sharp drop in profits that was much worse than analysts' expectations as the retailer was hurt by a sluggish economy.
Hudson's Bay, Canada's oldest company, reported that profits plunged to C$374,000 ($273,000) in the quarter ended July 31 from C$6.06 million ($4.4 million) a year ago.
Second quarter earnings dropped to 1 cent Canadian a share from a year-earlier C10 cents (7 cents), against a forecast of C10 cents by brokerage Richardson Greenshields of Canada.
ScotiaMcLeod Senior Vice President Fred Ketchen said Canada's sluggish economy contributed to the poor results.
"It is disappointing to see it," Ketchen said. "Canadians are just not spending their money."
"I think it represents quite a challenge to the Bay," Ketchen added.
The company, however, forecast better results in the year's second half.
Hudson's Bay Chief Executive George Kosich said that "... the combination of increased sales due to growing consumer confidence as well as to our ongoing expansion activities, improved margins and the benefits arising from the consolidation of functions, will lead to improved results in both Zellers and the Bay over the balance of the year."
The company recently merged the headquarters of Zellers, its 300-store discount chain and the Bay, its group of 100 upmarket department stores.
In the second half of 1996, the Bay will open one new store and complete a major expansion. Zellers will open five new stores, finish 10 expansions and close three outlets.
The chilly retail climate may also warm up, Hudson's Bay said. "The retail climate should benefit over the balance of the year from the combination of low rates of interest and inflation and from tax reductions for many customers," it said in a statement accompanying earnings.
Canada's major banks chopped prime lending rates to 5.75 percent from 6 percent on Thursday after the Canadian central bank dropped short-term interest rates on Thursday.
Prime rates are at their lowest since late March, 1994. The Ontario government also promised to slash personal income tax rates by 30 percent over three years in its latest budget.
Hudson's Bay shares fell C35 cents to C$20.05 ($14.65) in moderate trading on the Toronto Stock Exchange.