Canada's largest department store retailer, Hudson's Bay Co, forecast better results in the year's second half as the retailer expands and consumers open their wallets.
Chief executive George Kosich said "I fully expect that the combination of increased sales due to growing consumer confidence as well as to our ongoing expansion activities, improved margins and the benefits arising from the consolidation of functions, will lead to improved results in both Zellers and the Bay over the balance of the year."  
"In our industry results of the first half of the year cannot be considered indicative of the outlook for the all important second half," Kosich said in a statement.
Hudson's Bay released its second-quarter results, which plunged from a year earlier. Profit for the period ended July 31 dropped to C$0.01 a share versus C$0.10.
ScotiaMcLeod senior vice-president Fred Ketchen said Canada's sluggish economy contributed to the poor results. "It is disappointing to see it," Ketchen said. "Canadians are just not spending their money."  
"I think it represents quite a challenge to the Bay," Ketchen added.
Hudson's Bay said it had compared this year's figures for its department store chain The Bay to "abnormally high sales in May last year as the Bay took advantage of numerous events to celebrate the company's 325th anniversary."
In the second half, the Bay will open one new store and finish a major expansion. Discount chain Zellers will open five new stores, finish 10 expansions and close three outlets.
The second half should bring more consumer spending, it said.  
"The retail climate should benefit over the balance of the year from the combination of low rates of interest and inflation and from tax reductions for many customers," it said.
Canada's major banks chopped prime lending rates to 5.75 percent from 6.0 percent, effective Friday, after the Canadian central bank dropped short-term interest rates to 4.25 percent today.
It was the seventh time the Bank of Canada dropped rates this year. Prime rates are now at their lowest level since late March in 1994.
Ontario's government has also promised to slash personal income tax rates by 30.2 percent over three years in its latest budget.
-- Lydia Zajc, Reuters Toronto Bureau (416) 941-8100