As the billion-dollar merger of Bally Entertainment Inc and Hilton Hotels Corp nears, a small group of Bally's Grand Inc shareholders are grumbling about the deal and the Bally chairman's nearly $16 million termination fee.
The group, including one member who is suing Bally Entertainment, says Bally Grand's sale of land for its Las Vegas "Paris" casino to Bally Entertainment for $60 million leaves Bally's Grand without any opportunity for growth.  
"Without the land, (Bally's Grand) has no growth opportunity," said Russ Roth, publisher of The Las Vegas Investment Report, a small gambling stock newsletter. "They would be a one site property for the foreseeable future.
News of the deal caused Bally's Grand shares to drop 16 percent to 36-7/8 on Wednesday from 43-3/4 on August 14. The stock bounced back on Thursday, gaining 2-1/8 to 39.
The shareholders complain that, while they lost millions in market value, Bally Entertainment Chairman Arthur Goldberg will receive millions in cash compensation.  
A Securities and Exchange Commission document filed Wednesday by Hilton, says Goldberg will receive a $15.8 million termination fee and become a Hilton consultant when the deal is done.
The cash and job are beyond the value of his Bally stock when it's swapped for Hilton shares.
A Hilton spokesman declined to comment beyond the SEC filing and Bally Entertainment officials were not available.
One Bally's Grand stockholder, Alan Kahn, amended an old suit against Bally Entertainment seeking to stop the sale of the Paris land, which could slow the merger.
Hilton's main goal in doing the deal is to expand operations and "Paris" is a big part of the plan. Whether Kahn can actually stop the deal, however, is another matter.
Bally Entertainment owns 85 percent of Bally's Grand, manages their casino, effectively controls their board. And in a 10-Q filing last week revealing the sale, it said the deal was approved by "an independent special committee."
Hilton has set a shareholder meeting for September 19 to vote on the deal. Bally Entertainment's has been scheduled for one day earlier.