Walt Disney Co., already the world's biggest theme park operator, plans to spend billions of dollars on new theme parks, cruise lines and hotels in a bid to make Mickey Mouse even more famous.
The move, the biggest expansion in Disney's history, is aimed at introducing a whole new generation of visitors to its vast empire of resorts, hotels, amusement parks and attractions as well as luring visitors back again.
"Although our core audience is families and it will always be families, the fact of the matter is, if you look at the demographics, there are a lot of changes," Judson Green, president of Walt Disney Attractions, said in an interview.
"We realize that to the pre-family segment -- I'm talking about young adults and couples without children -- we're very appealing. Many of them came to our parks when they were kids so we're trying to communicate and market to them differently than we do the families."
Indeed, over the last 12 months Disney has announced a number of projects aimed at young adults, including celebrity nightclubs, a sprawling sports complex and numerous upgrades at its theme parks in Florida, California and Tokyo.
At the same time, the Burbank, Calif.-based entertainment giant is taking its show to the high seas with a pair of cruise ships that will ferry passengers from Florida to a private island Disney bought in the Carribean called "Castaway Cay."
Disney officials hope the 1,000-acre island will appeal to people of all ages. But, unlike most cruise ships, Disney's fleet will not offer gambling.
"We made the decision not to offer gambling partially because everybody else does, so why should we," Green said.
Both cruise ships are expected to set sail in 1998 and, based on how they do, Green said Disney may launch additional ships in the future.
Smith Barney analyst Jill Krutick said the cruise line should help boost traffic at Walt Disney World in Florida.
"We think of the cruise line really as new gates being added to Walt Disney World as opposed to thinking of Disney as a major player in the cruise line industry," she said. "We see them as a new way to lengthen the stay of passengers and create a new experience as an adjunct to the existing park."
In addition to the cruise lines, Disney is also building a 500-acre animal kingdom at Disney World in Florida, featuring wild creatures, exotic landscapes, and a 14-story "Tree of Life" exhibit, and adding a second theme park at Disneyland in California and Disneyland Tokyo.
Disney's ambitious expansion plan comes as the theme park business is booming and the company is preparing to launch an advertising blitz with fast food giant McDonalds Corp. to celebrate the 25th anniversary of Walt Disney World in Florida.
Disney does not officially disclose attendance figures but industry experts estimate Disney pulls in 15 million visitors a year in its domestic theme parks, and another 16 million at Disneyland Tokyo. Disneyland Paris, which is 39 percent owned by Walt Disney Co., attracts about 12 million people a year.
Last year Disney's theme park business reported revenues of nearly $4 billion, almost 10 times as much as its nearest competitor, MCA Inc., a unit of Seagram Co. Ltd..
For the first nine months of fiscal 1996, operating profits at Disney's theme park and resort division were up about 15 percent and Green said he expects the unit to post double-digit growth this year.
Cowen and Co. entertainment analyst Harold Vogel attributed Disney's success to its powerful brand image and cross-promotional efforts.
"The theme park business can be divided into Disney and everybody else," Vogel said. "They have the characters, they have the brand and they have the cross-promotional opportunities with the (ABC) network and their movies and that's all that matters."
However, Vogel said MCA is racing to close the gap.
At the Universal theme park in California, for example, visitors have been flocking to the new "Jurassic Park" ride, often waiting on lines for hours. And in Japan, MCA is building a theme park in Osaka to compete with Disney's highly successful Tokyo facility.
Green, while acknowledging the competition, said Disney is well prepared to deal with new threats to ist dominance.
"We think we're very well suited because we have great climates, we've got great assets and we know what it is that we do well and we deliver."