Zenith Electronics Corp calls were well bid as the stock soared on news of a big business deal, analysts said.
Zenith September 12-1/2 calls, with turnover of 2,647 contracts by late trade, were among the most actively trade options on the American Stock Exchange (AMEX). The stock was up a whopping 5-1/2 to 16-7/8.
"It looks like the public was the buyer of September 12-1/2 and market makers used the November options to hedge their positions," said Michael Schwartz, a managing director of Oppenheimer & Co.  
"Even though on an individual basis September 12-1/2 was the most active, there's more volume in the November 12-1/2, 15 and 17-1/2," he added. "That's impressive. They (market makers) didn't want to be unhedged."
Zenith stock jumped on news that the firm had signed a $1 billion deal to supply digital set-top boxes for programming venture Americast's home entertainment service.
The rally had cleaned up most technical concerns for the stock, noted Robert Rack, an analyst at Cincinatti-based Investment Research Institute.  
"From a technical perspective it looks pretty clean," he said.
He noted that relatively small open interest in out-of-the-money calls was a positive factor.
Elsewhere in today's moderately busy market, Philp Morris Cos Inc options continued attracting interest amid concerns over a barrage of lawsuits against the tobacco industry, analysts said.
As is usually the case with a badly battered stock, bottom-picking plays have begun to pick up in Philip Morris.  
Many traders appeared to view the 85 strike price as a key support for the stock, which was off 1/2 to 87-1/8 today.
Schwartz at Oppenheimer noted that put premiums were very rich and put-selling should look attractive to bottom-pickers.
"If somebody is bullish on the stock, why not buy it (6-1/8) points below the 85 strike?" he questioned. Premium on December 85 put traded at 6-1/8, up 1 on the day.
He noted that even if the put was exercised, the put writer would own a stock effectively bought slightly below 80. If the put expired, the deal would translate into a 22 percent gain on the capital required, he added.  
But Rack was skeptical if the support at 85 would hold. He noted that the 90 strike, with some 14,000 lots of put open interest prior to the stock slide, had just failed.
"Eighty-five is a support, but given the 90 didn't hold, this is not where you want to try to be a hero," he said.
On the Chicago Board Options Exchange, deep in-the-money Liposome Co Inc February 12-1/2 call was the among the most actives. A market-maker said it was not due to dividend plays because the firm had not been paying dividends on ordinary shares in previous quarters. -Derivatives Desk 312-408-8750 E-mail: derivatives@reuters.com