The resurrection of global aviation pioneer Pan Am, bankrupt five years ago, has been delayed by the ValuJet and TWA crashes -- but the new domestic carrier is flying test runs for a debut after Labor Day.
The new Pan American World Airways, which had aimed for a July 4th inauguration and then targeted Labor Day, should be ready for its first revenue flight a short time thereafter, Chief Executive Martin Shugrue said in a recent interview.
Shugrue said his management team had expected an expedited approval process because Pan Am's rebirth was based on "financing already in place, a solid business plan, crack management and young, wide-bodied aircraft."
But the May 11 crash of ValuJet Flight 592 in Florida's Everglades, which killed all 110 people on board, and the July 17 crash of TWA Flight 800 in the Atlantic Ocean off Long Island, killing 230, slowed federal approval by the Department of Transportation and Federal Aviation Administration.
"Given new concerns about airline safety and terrorism, our certification process understandably took longer than expected," he said.
Shugrue said the ValuJet crash, in which investigators suspect oxygen canisters shipped on the airliner by a contractor as a possible cause, diverted attention from Pan Am's certification and focused the spotlight on "outsourcing," or the use of outside contractors.
"Like many airlines today, we plan to outsource elements of our operations. But we were prescient in that we did not and do not plan to outsource the key areas of engineering, quality assurance and maintenance record keeping," he said.
Pan Am received provisional Transportation Department certification on Tuesday and Shugrue expects FAA certification in the near future. He said the airline was about 90 percent through FAA certification with only "proving flights" remaining to demonstrate Pan Am's readiness to fly between Miami, New York and Los Angeles.
The Transportation Department approval was granted despite a petition filed by families of the victims of the Pan Am Flight 103 crash over Lockerbie, Scotland opposing Shugrue's involvement with the new Pan Am. The families have not yet decided whether to further oppose the start-up carrier.
Shugrue was vice chairman and chief operating officer of the old Pan Am and served as president of Continental Airlines and trustee for Eastern Airlines after its 1989 bankruptcy.
Once final federal approval is obtained, Pan Am will complete its financing, Shugrue said.
On Aug. 12, the Securities and Exchange Commission approved a registration statement for Pan Am's reverse merger with the Frost-Hanna Mergers Group and a shareholders meeting on the merger is set for Sept. 4.
"At that point, an additional $17 million will be released to Pan Am. Shortly after that, Pan Am will list its stock," he said. Total financing at this point is more than $30 million in cash and nearly $10 million in kind.
"We want to launch as soon after Labor Day as possible in time for the business travel season. Our marketing effort is oriented toward frequent business flyers," Shugrue said.
Shugrue said he expected one-third of Pan Am's traffic to come from deals with international airlines that will feed passengers at three gateway airports. In return, Pan Am will feed domestic passengers to the international flights.
Among airlines already signed are AeroPeru, Aero Costa Rica, AirEuropa, Air Ukraine, Royal Jordanian, Carnival and Gulfstream. Airlines which have committed but have not signed contracts include AeroMexico, Egypt Air, Cayman, Mexicana, Olympic, and Virgin Atlantic.
The new Pan Am has three A300 Airbus aircraft under contract. The planes originally were operated by Eastern Airlines, then Continental.
Most of the 14 captains who have received their new Pan Am wings are seasoned Airbus pilots, six with Pan Am and eight with Eastern. They have an average of 17,000 flying hours each.
Pan Am's failure in 1991 ended an era in air travel. The carrier was launched in 1927 with a flight from Key West, Florida, to Havana, Cuba, and began extensive international air travel in the 1930s with many early routes scouted by the legendary Charles Lindbergh. It started first-class service and in-flight movies.