Schult Homes Corp said lumber prices are rising, but the company is optimistic about fiscal 1997 because of strong, favorable demographic trends and cost-saving internal improvements.
"We have an excellent opportunity to improve upon the records for sales and earnings we established in fiscal 1996," said Schult chief executive Walter Wells.
"We are aware that lumber prices are increasing, and have assumed that we will have no undue difficulty passing on those costs without adversely affecting sales," Schult said.  
Schult is the eighth-largest U.S. producer of manufactured homes, or mobile homes made in a factory. The company also makes modular homes, or homes assembled on a construction site from factory-built components.
The company posted net income for the quarter ended June 29 of $2.9 million or $0.77 per share, up from $1.7 million or $0.46 per share in the fourth quarter last year.
Net sales for the quarter were $90.8 million, up from $75.8 million recorded in the prior year period, Schult said.
Shares in Schult were up 1 to 19-3/8 midday Thursday.  
"The demographics of the nation's population are such that the baby-boomer generation has begun reaching the point in their lives when they are becoming empty-nesters and retirees and making changes in their housing situation," Wells said.
"Empty-nesters and retirees continue to see manufactured housing as a means of maintaining their lifestyle while making capital available to meet living expenses. At the same time, first time home buyers are increasingly viewing manufactured housing as a primary residence for the long term rather than as a stop-gap measure," Wells said.
Schult said it reorganized the company into two operating units and reduced selling, general and administrative costs.
"Modular housing remained strong in the Midwest where it is enjoying increasing visibility ... The eastern market remains very competitive and growth of modular home sales in that market was very difficult during the year," Schult said.
The company said its product mix remained fairly stable throughout the year. In the fourth quarter, single-section homes represented 20 percent of floor sections shipped, multi-section homes accounted for 67.5 percent of shipments and modular homes made up the remaining 12.5 percent.
--Chicago Newsdesk 312-408-8787