Marine Midland Bank, a unit of HSBC Holdings Plc, with three acquisitions completed or pending this year, is going to pause before pursuing any new deals, chief executive Jim Cleave said in an interview.
"We're not going to be knocking on any doors for about 12 months," Cleave said.
In the latest deal, Marine Midland agreed to acquire First Federal Savings and Loan Association of Rochester, N.Y. for $620 million (about C$843 million). The seller is Canadian financial services company CT Financial Services Inc.  
Discussing the origins of the latest deal, which gives Marine Midland an even bigger leadership position in northwest New York State and adds branches in New York City, Cleave said his team has been looking at acquisition candidates in the state for a year and a half and "we certainly had them on our radar screen." But he said things moved along quickly after CT Financial's investment banker, Merrill Lynch & Co Inc, approached Marine Midland in mid-July.
Asked if any other CT businesses were for sale, Cleave said, "to my knowledge, the only thing that was ever on the table was First Federal Savings."  
CT Financial's negotiating team included Edmund Clark, chief executive of CT, Cleave said.
The $620 million purchase price is about 1.55 times the book value of First Federal, which is about $400 million, Cleave said.
He said the sale price in relation to book value was "reflective of what the industry has been doing" for good thrift institutions.
In addition to operating 79 branch offices in New York state, First Federal also operates a national residential mortgage lending business.  
Within the last month, Marine Midland concluded the acquisition of East River Savings Bank, which has 11 branches in the New York City area.
Last week Marine Midland announced the purchase of J.P. Morgan & Co Inc's institutional U.S. cash processing business. Terms of that transaction were not disclosed.
First Federal has about 30 branches in the New York City area. The deal will put Marine Midland in first place in Monroe County (Rochester), New York in retail core deposits. It's second-place ranking in Erie County (Buffalo), New York will not change but it will gain market share.  
After completion of the First Federal deal, expected by year-end after regulatory approvals, the acquired branches will become full commercial bank branches.
Asked about commentary in the financial servcies industry that it no longer makes sense for banks to go out and buy "bricks and and mortar" branches in an era of computer and telephone banking, Cleave responded, "I agree with the proponents on both sides of the debate." He added, "it's not an 'either/or' by any means" because banks must be able to deliver services to customers through multiple channels.  
Asked also to respond to general criticism that thrifts are not desirable acquisitions for banks because customers tend to favor certificates of desposit, Cleave said he disagreed with that line of commentary. He added, "we like that kind of business and we factored the cost of term deposits into all of our financial modeling."
CT Financial is 98-percent owned by the diversified Canadian concern Imasco Ltd.
Cleave is chief executive of HSBC Americas Inc as well as president and chief executive of its Marine Midland subsidiary. Marine Midland is headquartered in Buffalo.