The Tanzanian port of Dar es Salaam, the gateway to much of East and Central Africa, says it plans to increase its cargo handling capacity and navigational aids.
Tanzania Harbour Authority (THA) Managing-Director Samson Luhigo said on Wednesday a dredging project valued at $35 million was scheduled to start next March to allow bigger cargo ships into Dar es Salaam.
The port entrance is restricted to ships of 35,000 tonnes drawing not more than nine metres (27 feet) at high tide.
Luhigo said the narrow harbour entrance would be widened and deepened to allow in larger ships and enable the port to operate 24 hours per day.
"We can't do night navigation which causes quite a few delays. An average vessel costs about $14,000 in 24 hours -- so that means a loss of 12 hours (with current operations)," he said.
Luhigo said Belgium had agreed to pay for 65 percent of the dredging bill and donors were being sought for the balance.
The port chief said customs clearing regulations had also been streamlined in a drive for greater port efficiency.
"It's totally different from the past where the customs officer was just a civil servant and didn't really care what happens. Now they care and that's the most important thing for us," Luhigo said.
THA spokesman Franklin Mziray said cargo handling equipment was on order to upgrade Dar es Salaam's container terminal.
A multi-million-dollar order had been placed to buy a new 35-tonne capacity ship-to-shore gantry crane and two rubber-wheeled 35-tonne gantry cranes.
The cranes from the Danish company Kone can handle containers of 6.8 metres (20 feet) and 13 metres (40 feet). Mziray said the port recently commissioned 15 more tractors and trailers for container handling.
The renovations are part of a programme which began in 1985 with the help of the World Bank and funding from Finland, Denmark, Netherlands, Australia, Britain and Norway, he said.
Crude oil tankers of up to 300,000 tonnes currently offload outside the harbour, utilising a floating pier.
Dar es Salaam's pumping facility serves the Ndola oil refinery in Zambia's northern copper belt through a 3,000 km (1,875-mile) pipeline.
Luhigo said traffic figures for the port showed a steady increase in shipping arrivals using the port's 11 berths.
"Seventy percent of Zambia's minerals are shipped through Dar es Salaam. Zambia utilises 40 percent of the capacity of the port. Zambia Consolidated Copper Mines is the main customer for the port," Mziray said.
Dar es Salaam also usually handles 70 percent of Burundi's exports and imports, which reached 221,817 tonnes in 1994.
But regional states including Tanzania have imposed an embargo on the landlocked country since July 31, demanding a return to constitutional rule and peace talks with Hutu Burundian rebels.