Nigeria's oil minister on Thursday said the government would apply strict conditions on joint venture partners in oil production to ensure the country got a fair share.
"Some joint venture operators blatantly ignore calls on them for justification or details of expenditure items," oil minister Dan Etete told joint venture company executives in Lagos.  
Etete said escrow accounts would be opened by joint venture companies so the government would be able to ensure it was getting a fair deal in cash calls for production and exploration costs.
"Two types of escrow accounts are to be opened henceforth by each of the joint ventures into which cash call contributions will be lodged," Etete said.
One of the accounts will be for foreign exchange with an overseas bank, operated through the Central Bank of Nigeria, the other would be a local currency account.  
"There would be established in the office of the minister a monitoring unit which will vet all invoices and claims to be debited to the accounts. The unit will comprise professionals who will be assisted by a value for money auditor," Etete said.  
In a move to increase local participation in the industry Etete said that oil industry contracts should be handed only to Nigerian-registered companies.
He also said expatriate staff should not be engaged by joint venture companies without the approval of the National Petroleum Investment Management services, the company which oversees the government's interest in the joint ventures.
"Partly due to (employing expatraites unnecessarily) the average unit production cost for Nigerian fields has, over the years, been progressively on the rise whereas the trend has been the opposite in other producing companies," he said.  
Nigeria pumps around two million barrels of crude oil a day in joint venture agreements between state-run Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) and foreign multinationals.
The companies have previously presented bills to the government for the costs of production and exploration based on the amount they say they have spent.
Etete said marginal fields within the concession area of the major companies, but left unexploited would be handed out to companies that are interested in exploiting them.
"These measures are not new, and not unusual in the industry. the focus is to ensure that the existing laws, which are not different from what obtains elsewhere in the world are fully enforced," Etete said.
--Lagos newsroom +234 1 2630317