Romania's tender for two lucrative GSM mobile telephone licences is a "success", although bidders will have to meet tough new terms likely to raise costs dramatically, a senior Romanian official said.
"So far, 60 companies have bought the tender documents. We see this as a success," Communications Ministry counsellor Ion Matei told Reuters on Thursday.
The deadline for the tender, initially set for July 26, was pushed back by two months "to allow interested companies to form consortiums or work out the best financial arrangements for the tender," he said.
A shortage of free channels on the 900 MHz waveband used by the GSM system had also caused delay, Matei said.
He declined to disclose the potential bidders for the September 26 tender but said: "All what I can tell is that there are several big Western companies among them."
This month Italian telecoms group Stet, French constructor Bouygues and Britain's Balli Group, backed by investment bank Goldman Sachs, said they had joined forces to bid for the work.
The consortium is negotiating with Romanian partners to boost its chances of winning the tender, it said.
Last month, the ministry added new terms to the tender, in a bid to make it "more challenging", Matei said.
New conditions include an upfront $50 million frequency concession tax as well as GSM coverage along European transit routes in Romania within 18 months of winning the tender.
The tender requires that by 2001 GSM should cover some 65 percent of Romania, most of the country's inhabited area. The ex-communist state is the last in the region to set up a digital GSM system.
"Coverage of roads will be a difficult job," Matei said, adding that in the second stage of the project towns crossed by those roads, with an approximate length of 2,000 km (1,250 miles) should also be connected to GSM.
A low density of population in some areas also added to the problems, Matei said. "I admit conditions are tough but our aim is to select the best potential bidders," Matei said.
Romania currently operates an analogue technology mobile phone network covering eight cities, in partnership with Telefonica de Espana SA which has a 10-year licence.
Succesful bidders must have solid operating experience and financial strength to back the costs to implement the licences, expected to amount to some $1.0 billion.
Matei said he was confident the new digital mobile phones would catch on fast with both businesses and individuals in the country of 23 million people, where waiting time for a landline can exceed five years. -- Bucharest Newsroom 40-1 3120264