Analysts responded positively on Thursday to the announcement by Hungary's State Privatisation Agency APV that Danubius Hotels had won the tender to buy 85 percent of hotel chain Hungaria Szalloda.
"We're certainly pleased that they've bought it," said Frances Cloud of Nomura Equity Research in London. "It can add quite a lot of value to their portfolio and the price was quite reasonable." @
APV announced earlier on Thursday that Danubius would pay 8.125 billion forints for the stake, representing 173.8 percent of the face value of the shares.
The remaining 15 percent stake will be offered to employees with Danubius obliged to buy any shares not subscribed at the same rate of 173.8 percent of face value.
The agreement will take effect as soon as the government's Competition Agency has given its approval.
Cloud believes the deal will have no trouble getting past the Competition Agency despite a clause in the tender limiting the winner to 30 percent of the domestic hotel market. @
The combined market share of Danubius and Hungarhotels is around 27 percent in all categories of hotel but rises to above 30 percent if the Beta Hotel chain in which Danubius has shares is included.
However sources within Danubius have said that as the company does not actually control or manage Beta it would be left out of the equation.
"They will have thought about this in advance and I am sure they have worked out plans to get round this," Cloud said, adding that it was unlikely the deal would have been approved by the APV if there was a danger of rejection by the agency. @
Anthony Vago of Bank Austria Giro Credit in Hungary also welcomed the deal but warned that the means by which Danubius pays for the acquisition could make a difference in terms of earnings per share (EPS).
These would increase if funds are generated through an equity raise but could fall if the company uses debt.
"EPS is going to go down if it's financed with debt but that's offset with the profits it gets from the group," he said. @
"But I think it would be wise for them to finance it with a capital increase. That would be the logical way to go." he said, adding that neither scenario would affect long-term propects for the Danubius shares, which he rates as a long-term buy.
Cloud believes there could be a combination of different modes of payment.
"I don't think they quite know yet how they're going to do it," she said. "There could be a combination of debt and a capital increase or they may be allowed to pay in instalments," she said. @
Hungaria Szalloda, which as HungarHotels was the subject of a failed bid by American General Hospitality Corp of Dallas, Texas, early last year, is made up of 14 mainly provincial hotels.
In January, the APV hived off the HungarHotels' flagship hotel, the Budapest Forum, for a separate tender and in May announced a new tender for an 85 percent stake in the 14 remaining hotels under the Hungaria Szalloda name.
The APV said it had not yet reached a decision on the Hotel Forum tender. @
The Budapest Stock Exchange earlier suspended trading in Danubius shares on the strength of newspaper reports anticipating the announcement of the sale. Trading of the papers will resume on Friday.
-- Duncan Shiels, Budapest newsroom +361 266 2410