The Czech government will consider a plan to partially privatise two large northeast steelworks through a programme including a management buyout, Industry and Trade Minister Vladimir Dlouhy said on Thursday.
Dlouhy told a news conference that he would submit a plan under which the state would sell shares totalling 19 percent in the Nova Hut a.s. and Vitkovice a.s. steelmills on the stock market.
Each company's management would get a one percent stake.
He added that the mills' leaders would also get an five-year option to get a further 10 percent stake, which could only be executed if they succeed with their restructuring plans for the companies.
"This is a significant step towards what is called a management buyout, although it is not typical... but it is a new element in our privatisation," the minister told reporters.
The state owns over 68 percent in both steel companies through the privatisation agency the National Property Fund (NPF).
"We came to a conclusion that the managements of both companies have well defined their business plans, restructuring aims, and good analysis of sales opportunities," said Dlouhy.
He said the criteria under which the privatisation would take place included transparency of ownership, cooperation with local authorities, penalties for failing to fulfil the restructuring commitments and the firms' market value.
"We believe that a well defined direct sale of a certain stake to the management will create good motivation and good chance for repayment of the purchase price without damaging other shareholders," he told reporters.
Dlouhy said that if 51 percent stake was sold, the majority owners could block dividend payments and use all profit for repayment of the loans they took for the stock purchase.
The plan, which still must be approved by the government, should be launched before the end of this year, he said.
Dlouhy also said that the two firms, both in the northeastern mining city of Ostrava, would combine their pig iron production at Nova Hut.
He added that after the year 2000 the state would start gradually selling off its remaining stakes.
-- Jan Lopatka, Prague Newsroom, 42-2-2423-0003